<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
<div class="calibre1">
    <hr/>

    <p>Upon a roof floored in square stony tiles, the brilliant morning Sun blazes down upon two not-really-children-any-more, both in blue-fringed black robes, facing each other across crossed wands. One has brown eyes beneath chaotic chestnut curls, and radiates an aura of strength and beauty that is not magic only; the other has green eyes under glasses, with messy black hair above a recently inflamed scar. Below, a stone tower nobody remembers seeing from ground level stretches downwards into the broad base of the castle Hogwarts. Far beneath them are visible the green hills, and the lake. In the distance a huge red-and-black line of railcars and an engine, appearing tiny from this height, a train neither Muggle nor fully magical. The sky is nearly unclouded, but for faint tinges of orange-white where wisps of moisture reflect the sunlight. A light breeze carries the crisp chill of dawn, and the dampness of morning; but the huge blazing golden globe is now risen high above the horizon, and its incandescence casts warmth on everything it touches.</p>

    <p>‘Well, maybe after this you’ll be less nervous,’ the hero says to her enigmatic wizard. She knows she doesn’t know the whole story, but the fragment of truth that she does hold shines bright like sunlight within her, casting warmth on her insides the way the Sun warms her face. ‘I <em>do</em> choose this, now.’</p>

    <p><i>Upon my life and magic I swear friendship to Harry Potter,</i></p>
<p><i>To help him and trust in him,</i></p>
<p><i>To stand with him and, um, stand by him,</i></p>
<p><i>And sometimes go where he can’t go,</i></p>
<p><i>’Till the day that death takes me for real, if it ever does, I mean,</i></p>
<p><i>And if the world or its magic ends, we’ll deal with that together.</i></p>

  </div>
</body>
</html>