<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
<div class="calibre1">
    <p><i>Hypothesis: Hermione Granger<br/> (April 8th, 1992, 6:53pm)</i></p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Meanwhile in the Great Hall of Hogwarts, as the students who didn’t have secret meetings with the Headmaster bustled about their dinner around four huge tables –</p>

    <p>‘It’s funny,’ Dean Thomas said thoughtfully. ‘I didn’t believe the General when he said that what we learned would change us forever, and we’d never be able to return to a normal life afterwards. Once we knew. Once we saw what <em>he</em> could see.’</p>

    <p>‘I know!’ said Seamus Finnigan. ‘I thought it was just a joke too! Like, you know, everything else General Chaos ever said ever.’</p>

    <p>‘But now&#160;–’ Dean said sadly. ‘We <em>can’t</em> go back, can we? It’d be like going back to a Muggle school after having been to Hogwarts. We’ve just … we’ve just got to stay around each other. That’s all we can do, or we’ll go crazy.’</p>

    <p>Seamus Finnigan, next to him, just nodded wordlessly and ate another bite of veldbeest.</p>

    <p>Around them, the conversation at the Gryffindor table continued. It wasn’t as <em>relentless</em> as it’d been yesterday, but now and then the topic wandered back.</p>

    <p>‘Well, there must’ve been <em>some</em> sort of love triangle,’ said a second-year witch named Samantha Crowley (she never answered when asked if there was any relation). ‘The question is, which ways was it <em>going</em> before it all went wrong? Who was in love with who – and whether or not that person loved them back – I don’t know <em>how</em> many possibilities there are&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Sixty-four,’ said Sarah Varyabil, a blossoming beauty who probably should’ve been Sorted into Ravenclaw or Hufflepuff instead. ‘No, wait, that’s wrong. I mean, if nobody loved Malfoy and Malfoy didn’t love anyone then he wouldn’t really be part of the love triangle … this is going to take Arithmancy, could you all wait two minutes?’</p>

    <p>‘<em>I,</em> for one, think it perfectly clear that Granger is Potter’s moirail, and that Potter was auspisticing between Malfoy and Granger.’ The witch who’d spoken nodded with the self-satisfaction of someone who has just precisely nailed down a complicated issue.</p>

    <p>‘Those aren’t even words,’ objected a young wizard. ‘You’re just making them up as you go.’</p>

    <p>‘Sometimes you can’t describe a thing using <em>real</em> words.’</p>

    <p>‘It’s so <em>sad,</em>’ said Sherice Ngaserin, who actually had tears in her eyes. ‘They were just – they were just so <em>obviously</em> meant to be together!’</p>

    <p>‘You mean Potter and Malfoy?’ said a second-year named Colleen Johnson. ‘I know – their families hated each other so much, there’s no way they <em>couldn’t</em> fall in love&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘No, I mean all three of them,’ said Sherice.</p>

    <p>This produced a brief pause in the huddled conversation. Dean Thomas was quietly choking on his lemonade, trying not to make any sounds as it trickled out of his mouth and soaked into his shirt.</p>

    <p><em>‘Wow,’</em> said a dark-haired witch by the name of Nancy Hua. ‘That’s really … <em>sophisticated</em> of you, Sherice.’</p>

    <p>‘Look, all of you, we need to keep this realistic,’ said Eloise Rosen, a tall witch who’d been General of an army and hence spoke with an air of authority. ‘We <em>know</em> – because she kissed him – that Granger was in love with Potter. So the only reason she’d try to kill Malfoy is if she knew that she was losing Potter to him. There’s no need to make it all sound so complicated – you’re all acting like this is a play instead of real life!’</p>

    <p>‘But even if Granger was in love, it’s still funny that she’d just <em>snap</em> like that,’ said Chloe, whose black robes combined with her night-black skin to make her look like a darkened silhouette. ‘I don’t know … I think maybe there’s more to this than just a romance novel gone wrong. I think maybe most people haven’t got any idea at all what’s going on.’</p>

    <p><i>‘Yes! Thank you!’</i> burst out Dean Thomas. ‘Look – don’t you realize – like Harry Potter <em>told</em> us all – if you didn’t <em>predict</em> that something would happen, if it took you completely by surprise, then what you believed about the world when you <em>didn’t</em> see it coming, isn’t enough to explain …’ Dean’s voice trailed off, as he saw that nobody was listening. ‘It’s <i>completely hopeless,</i> isn’t it?’</p>

    <p>‘You hadn’t figured that out yet?’ said Lavender Brown, who was sitting across the table from her two fellow former Chaotics. ‘How’d you ever make Lieutenant?’</p>

    <p>‘Oh, you two be quiet!’ Sherice snapped at them. ‘It’s obvious you both want the three of them for yourselves!’</p>

    <p>‘I mean it!’ Chloe said. ‘What if what’s <em>really</em> going on is different from all the, you know, <em>normal</em> things that all the <em>ordinary</em> people are talking about? What if somebody – <em>made</em> Granger do what she did, just like Potter was trying to tell everyone?’</p>

    <p>‘I think Chloe’s right,’ said a foreign-looking boy wizard who always introduced himself as <i class="q">Adrian Turnipseed</i>, though his parents had actually named him Mad Drongo. ‘I think this whole time there’s been …’ Adrian lowered his voice ominously, ‘… a <i>hidden hand</i> …’ Adrian raised his voice again, ‘shaping all that’s happened. One person who’s been behind <em>everything,</em> from the beginning. And I don’t mean Professor Snape, either.’</p>

    <p>‘You don’t mean&#160;–’ gasped Sarah.</p>

    <p>‘Yes,’ Adrian said. ‘The <i>real</i> one behind it all is – <i>Tracey Davis!</i>’</p>

    <p>‘That’s what I think too,’ Chloe said. ‘After all&#160;–’ She glanced around rapidly. ‘Ever since that thing with the bullies and the ceiling – even the trees in the forests around Hogwarts look like they’re <em>shaking,</em> like they’re <em>afraid –</em>’</p>

    <p>Seamus Finnigan was frowning thoughtfully. ‘I think I see where Harry gets his … <i>you know</i> … from,’ Seamus said, lowering his voice so that only Lavender and Dean could hear.</p>

    <p>‘Oh, I totally know what you mean,’ Lavender said. She didn’t bother to lower her own voice. ‘It’s a wonder he didn’t crack and just start killing everyone <em>ages</em> ago.’</p>

    <p>‘Personally,’ Dean said, also in a quieter voice, ‘I’d say the really scary part is – that could’ve been <em>us.</em>’</p>

    <p>‘Yeah,’ said Lavender. ‘It’s a good thing <em>we’re</em> all perfectly sane now.’</p>

    <p>Dean and Seamus nodded solemnly.</p>

    <hr/>


</div>
</body>
</html>