<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
<div class="calibre1">
    <p>A silent figure trudged wearily through the halls of Hogwarts in the direction of Ravenclaw.</p>

    <p>Harry had gone straight from the meeting with Draco to dinner, and stayed at dinner barely long enough to choke down a few fast gulps of food before going off to bed.</p>

    <p>It wasn’t even 7pm yet, but it was well past bedtime for Harry. He’d realized <em>last</em> night that he wouldn’t be able to use the Time-Turner on Saturday until after the book-reading contest was already over. But he could still use the Time-Turner on <em>Friday</em> night, and gain time that way. So Harry had pushed himself to stay awake until 9pm on Friday, when the protective shell opened, and then used the four hours remaining on the Time-Turner to spin back to 5pm and collapse into sleep. He’d woken up around 2am on Saturday morning, just as planned, and read for the next twelve hours straight … and it still hadn’t been enough. And now Harry would be going to sleep rather early for the next few days, until his sleep cycle caught up again.</p>

    <p>The portrait on the door asked Harry some dumb riddle meant for eleven-year-olds that he answered without the words even passing through his conscious mind, and then Harry staggered up the stairs to his dorm, changed into his pyjamas and collapsed into bed.</p>

    <p>And found that his pillow seemed rather lumpy.</p>

    <p>Harry groaned. He sat up reluctantly, twisted in bed, and lifted up his pillow.</p>

    <p>This revealed a note, two golden Galleons, and a book titled <i>Occlumency: The Hidden Arte.</i></p>

    <p>Harry picked up the note and read:</p>

    <blockquote class="hand">
      <p>My, you do get yourself into trouble and quickly. Your father was no match for you.</p>

      <p>You have made a powerful enemy. Snape commands the loyalty, admiration, and fear of all House Slytherin. You cannot trust any of that House now, whether they come to you in friendly guise or fearsome.</p>

      <p>From now on you must not meet Snape’s eyes. He is a Legilimens and can read your mind if you do. I have enclosed a book which may help you learn to protect yourself, though there is only so far you can get without a tutor. Still you may hope to at least detect intrusion.</p>

      <p>So that you may find some extra time in which to study Occlumency, I have enclosed 2 Galleons, which is the price of answer sheets and homework for the first-year History of Magic class (Professor Binns having given the same tests and same assignments every year since he died). Your newfound friends the Weasley twins should be able to sell you a copy. It goes without saying that you must not get caught with it in your possession.</p>

      <p>Of Professor Quirrell I know little. He is a Slytherin and a Defence Professor, and that is two marks against him. Consider carefully any advice he gives you, and tell him nothing you do not wish known.</p>

      <p>Dumbledore only pretends to be insane. He is extremely intelligent, and if you continue to step into closets and vanish, he will certainly deduce your possession of an invisibility cloak if he has not done so already. Avoid him whenever possible, hide the Cloak of Invisibility somewhere safe (NOT your pouch) any time you cannot avoid him, and step with great care in his presence.</p>

      <p>Please be more careful in the future, Harry Potter.</p>

      <p>– Santa Claus</p>
    </blockquote>

    <p>Harry stared at the note.</p>

    <p>It <em>did</em> seem to be pretty good advice. Of course Harry wasn’t going to cheat in History class even if they gave him a dead monkey for a professor. But Severus’s Legilimency … whoever’d sent this note knew a lot of important, secret things and was willing to tell Harry about them. The note was still warning him against Dumbledore stealing the Cloak but at this point Harry honestly had no clue if that was a bad sign, it could just be an understandable mistake.</p>

    <p>There seemed to be some sort of intrigue going on inside Hogwarts. Maybe if Harry <i>compared stories</i> between Dumbledore and the note-sender, he could work out a <em>combined</em> picture that would be accurate? Like if they <em>both</em> agreed on something, then …</p>

    <p>… whatever …</p>

    <p>Harry stuffed everything into his pouch and turned up the Quieter and pulled the cover over his head and died.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>It was Sunday morning and Harry was eating pancakes in the Great Hall, sharp quick bites, glancing nervously at his watch every few seconds.</p>

    <p>It was 8:02am, and in precisely two hours and one minute, it would be <i>exactly one week</i> since he’d seen the Weasleys and crossed over onto Platform Nine and Three-Quarters.</p>

    <p>And the thought had occurred to him … Harry didn’t know if this was a valid way to think about the universe, he didn’t know anything any more, but it <i>seemed possible …</i></p>

    <p>That …</p>

    <p class="thought">Not enough interesting things had happened to him over the last week.</p>

    <p>When he was done eating breakfast, Harry planned to go straight up to his room and hide in the bottom level of his trunk and not talk to anyone until 10:03am.</p>

    <p>And that was when Harry saw the Weasley twins walking toward him. One of them was carrying something concealed behind his back.</p>

    <p>He should scream and run away.</p>

    <p>He should scream and run away.</p>

    <p>Whatever this was … it could very well be …</p>

    <p>… the <i>grand finale …</i></p>

    <p>He really should just scream and run away.</p>

    <p>With a resigned feeling that the universe would come and get him <em>anyway</em>, Harry continued slicing at the pancake with his fork and knife. He couldn’t muster the energy. That was the sad truth. Harry knew now how people felt when they were tired of running, tired of trying to escape fate, and they just fell to the ground and let the horrifically be-fanged and tentacled demons of the darkest abyss drag them off to their unspeakable destiny.</p>

    <p>The Weasley twins drew closer.</p>

    <p>And yet closer.</p>

    <p>Harry ate another bite of pancake.</p>

    <p>The Weasley twins arrived, grinning brightly.</p>

    <p>‘Hello, Fred,’ Harry said dully. One of the twins nodded. ‘Hello, George.’ The other twin nodded.</p>

    <p>‘You sound tired,’ said George.</p>

    <p>‘You should cheer up,’ said Fred.</p>

    <p>‘Look what <em>we</em> got you!’</p>

    <p>And George took, from behind Fred’s back –</p>

    <p>A cake with twelve flaming candles.</p>

    <p>There was a pause, as the Ravenclaw table stared at them.</p>

    <p>‘That’s not right,’ said someone. ‘Harry Potter was born on the thirty-first of Jul–’</p>

    <p><i class="shout">‘He is coming,’</i> said a huge hollow voice that cut through all conversation like a sword of ice. <i class="shout">‘The one who will tear apart the very&#160;–’</i></p>

    <p>Dumbledore had leapt out of his throne and run straight over the Head Table and seized hold of the woman speaking those awful words, Fawkes had appeared in a flash, and all three of them vanished in a crack of fire.</p>

    <p>There was a shocked pause …</p>

    <p>… followed by heads turning in the direction of Harry Potter.</p>

    <p>‘I didn’t do it,’ Harry said in a tired voice.</p>

    <p>‘That was a <em>prophecy!</em>’ someone at the table hissed. ‘And I bet it’s about <em>you!</em>’</p>

    <p>Harry sighed.</p>

    <p>He stood up from his seat, raised his voice, and said very loudly over the conversations that were starting up, <i>‘It’s not about me! Obviously! I’m not coming here, I’m already here!’</i></p>

    <p>Harry sat back down again.</p>

    <p>The people who had been looking at him turned away again.</p>

    <p>Someone else at the table said, ‘Then who <em>is</em> it about?’</p>

    <p>And with a dull, leaden sensation, Harry realized who <em>wasn’t</em> already at Hogwarts.</p>

    <p>Call it a wild guess, but Harry had a feeling the undead Dark Lord would be showing up one of these days.</p>

    <p>The conversation continued on around him.</p>

    <p>‘Not to mention, tear apart the very <em>what?</em>’</p>

    <p>‘I thought I heard Trelawney start to say something with an “S” just before the Headmaster grabbed her.’</p>

    <p>‘Like … soul? Sun?’</p>

    <p>‘If someone’s going to tear apart the Sun we’re <em>really</em> in trouble!’</p>

    <p>That seemed rather unlikely to Harry, unless the world contained scary things which had heard of David Criswell’s ideas about star lifting.</p>

    <p>‘So,’ Harry said in tired tones, ‘this happens every Sunday breakfast, does it?’</p>

    <p>‘No,’ said a student who might have been in his seventh year, frowning grimly. ‘It doesn’t.’</p>

    <p>Harry shrugged. ‘Whatever. Anyone want some birthday cake?’</p>

    <p>‘But it’s <em>not</em> your birthday!’ said the same student who’d objected last time.</p>

    <p>That was the cue for Fred and George to start laughing, of course.</p>

    <p>Even Harry managed a weary smile.</p>

    <p>As the first slice was served to him, Harry said, ‘I’ve had a <i>really long week</i>.’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>And Harry was sitting in the cavern level of his trunk, slid shut and locked so no one could get in, a blanket pulled over his head, waiting for the week to be over.</p>

    <p>10:01.</p>

    <p>10:02.</p>

    <p>10:03, but just to be sure …</p>

    <p>10:04 and the first week was done.</p>

    <p>Harry breathed a sigh of relief, and gingerly pulled the blanket off of his head.</p>

    <p>A few moments later, he had emerged into the bright sunlit air of his dorm.</p>

    <p>Shortly after, and he was in the Ravenclaw common room. A few people looked at him, but no one said anything or tried to talk to him.</p>

    <p>Harry found a nice wide writing desk, pulled back a comfortable chair, and sat down. From his pouch he drew a sheet of paper and a pencil.</p>

    <p>Mum and Dad had told Harry in no uncertain terms that while they understood his enthusiasm for leaving home and getting away from his parents, he was to write them <i>every week without fail</i>, just so that they knew he was alive, unharmed, and not in prison.</p>

    <p>Harry stared down at the blank sheet of paper. <i>Let’s see …</i></p>

    <p>After leaving his parents at the train station, he’d …</p>

    <p>… become acquainted with a boy raised by Darth Vader, become friends with the three most infamous pranksters in Hogwarts, met Hermione, then there’d been the Incident with the Sorting Hat … Monday he’d been given a time machine to treat his sleep disorder, got a legendary invisibility cloak from an unknown benefactor, rescued seven Hufflepuffs by staring down five scary older boys one of whom had threatened to break his finger, realized that he possessed a mysterious dark side, learned to cast <em>Frigideiro</em> in Charms class, and started his rivalry with Hermione … Tuesday had introduced Astronomy taught by Professor Aurora Sinistra who was nice, and History of Magic taught by a ghost who ought to be exorcised and replaced with a tape recorder … Wednesday, he’d been pronounced the Most Dangerous Student in the Classroom … Thursday, let’s not even think about Thursday … Friday, the Incident in Potions Class, followed by his blackmailing the Headmaster, followed by the Defence Professor having him beaten up in class, followed by the Defence Professor turning out to be the most awesome human being who still walked the face of the Earth … Saturday he’d lost a bet and gone on his first date and started redeeming Draco … and then this morning Professor Trelawney’s unheard prophecy might or might not indicate that an immortal Dark Lord was about to attack Hogwarts.</p>

    <p>Harry mentally organized his material, and started writing.</p>

    <blockquote class="hand">
      <p>Dear Mum and Dad:</p>

      <p>Hogwarts is lots of fun. I learned how to violate the Second Law of Thermodynamics in Charms class, and I met a girl named Hermione Granger who reads faster than I do.</p>

      <p>I’d better leave it at that.</p>

      <p>Your loving son,<br/> Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres.</p>
    </blockquote>
  </div>
</body>
</html>