<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
<div class="calibre1">
    <p>Minerva McGonagall waited in the Headmaster’s office.</p>

    <p>Dumbledore sat in his padded throne behind his desk, dressed in four layers of formal lavender robes. Minerva sat in a chair before him, opposite Severus in another chair. Facing the three of them was an empty wooden stool.</p>

    <p>They were waiting for Harry Potter.</p>

    <p><i>Harry,</i> Minerva thought despairingly, <i>you promised you wouldn’t bite any teachers!</i></p>

    <p>And in her mind she could see very clearly the reply, Harry’s angry face and his outraged response: <i>I said I wouldn’t bite anyone who didn’t bite me first!</i></p>

    <p>There was a knock at the door.</p>

    <p>‘Come in!’ Dumbledore called.</p>

    <p>The door swept open, and Harry Potter entered. Minerva almost gasped out loud. The boy looked cool, collected, and utterly in control of himself.</p>

    <p>‘Good mor–’ Harry’s voice suddenly cut off. His jaw dropped.</p>

    <p>Minerva tracked Harry’s gaze, and she saw that Harry was staring at Fawkes where the phoenix sat on its golden perch. Fawkes fluttered his bright red-golden wings like the flickering of a flame, and dipped his head in a measured nod to the boy.</p>

    <p>Harry turned to stare at Dumbledore.</p>

    <p>Dumbledore winked at him.</p>

    <p>Minerva felt she was missing something.</p>

    <p>Sudden uncertainty crossed Harry’s face. His coolness wavered. Fear showed in his eyes, then anger, and then the boy was calm again.</p>

    <p>A chill went down Minerva’s spine. Something was not right here.</p>

    <p>‘Please sit down,’ said Dumbledore. His face was now serious once more.</p>

    <p>Harry sat.</p>

    <p>‘So, Harry,’ said Dumbledore. ‘I’ve heard one report of this day from Professor Snape. Would you care to tell me what happened in your own words?’</p>

    <p>Harry’s gaze flicked dismissively to Severus. ‘It’s not complicated,’ said the boy, smiling thinly. ‘He tried bullying me the way he’s been bullying every non-Slytherin in the school since the day Lucius foisted him off on you. As for the other details, I request a private conversation with you concerning them. A student who is reporting abusive behaviour from a professor can hardly be expected to speak frankly in front of that same professor, after all.’</p>

    <p>This time Minerva couldn’t stop herself from gasping out loud.</p>

    <p>Severus simply laughed.</p>

    <p>And the Headmaster’s face grew grave. ‘Mr&#160;Potter,’ the Headmaster said, ‘one does not speak of a Hogwarts professor in such terms. I fear that you labour under a terrible misapprehension. Professor Severus Snape has my fullest confidence, and serves Hogwarts at my own behest, not Lucius Malfoy’s.’</p>

    <p>There was silence for a few moments.</p>

    <p>When the boy spoke again his voice was icy. ‘Am I missing something here?’</p>

    <p>‘Quite a number of things, Mr&#160;Potter,’ said the Headmaster. ‘You should understand, to start with, that the purpose of this meeting is to discuss how to discipline you for the events of this morning.’</p>

    <p>‘This man has terrorized your school for years. I spoke to students and collected stories to make sure there would be enough for a newspaper campaign to rally the parents against him. Some of the younger students cried while they told me. I almost cried when I heard them! <i>You allowed this abuser to run free? You did this to your students? Why?</i>’</p>

    <p>Minerva swallowed a lump in her throat. She’d – thought that, sometimes, but somehow she’d never quite –</p>

    <p>‘Mr&#160;Potter,’ said the Headmaster, his voice now stern, ‘this meeting is not about Professor Snape. It is about you and your disregard for school discipline. Professor Snape has suggested, and I have agreed, that three full months of detention will be appropriate&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Declined,’ Harry said icily.</p>

    <p>Minerva was speechless.</p>

    <p>‘This is not a request, Mr&#160;Potter,’ the Headmaster said. The full, entire force of the wizard’s gaze was turned on the boy. ‘This is your punishme–’</p>

    <p>‘You will explain to me why you allowed this man to hurt the children placed in your care, and if your explanation is not sufficient then I will begin my newspaper campaign with <em>you</em> as the target.’</p>

    <p>Minerva’s body swayed with the force of that blow, with the sheer raw <i>lèse majesté</i>.</p>

    <p>Even Severus looked shocked.</p>

    <p>‘That, Harry, would be most extremely unwise,’ Dumbledore said slowly. ‘I am the primary piece opposing Lucius on the game board. For you to do such a thing would strengthen him greatly, and I did not think that was your chosen side.’</p>

    <p>The boy was still for a long moment.</p>

    <p>‘This conversation grows private,’ Harry said. His hand flicked in Severus’s direction. ‘Send him away.’</p>

    <p>Dumbledore shook his head. ‘Harry, did I not tell you that Severus Snape has my fullest confidence?’</p>

    <p>The boy’s face showed the shock of it. ‘This man’s bullying makes you vulnerable! I am not the only one who could start a newspaper campaign against you! This is insane! Why are you doing this?’</p>

    <p>Dumbledore sighed. ‘I’m sorry, Harry. It has to do with things that you are not, at this time, ready to hear.’</p>

    <p>The boy stared at Dumbledore. Then he turned to look at Severus. Then back to Dumbledore again.</p>

    <p>‘It <em>is</em> insanity,’ the boy said slowly. ‘You haven’t reined him in because you think he’s <i>part of the pattern</i>. That Hogwarts needs an evil Potions Master to be a proper magical school, just as it needs a ghost to teach History.’</p>

    <p>‘That does sound like the sort of thing I would do, doesn’t it?’ said Dumbledore, smiling.</p>

    <p>‘Unacceptable,’ Harry said flatly. His gaze was now cold and dark. ‘I will not tolerate bullying or abuse. I had considered many possible ways of dealing with this problem, but I will make it simple. Either this man goes, or I do.’</p>

    <p>Minerva gasped again. Something strange flickered in Severus’s eyes.</p>

    <p>Now Dumbledore’s gaze was also growing cold. ‘Expulsion, Mr&#160;Potter, is the final threat which may be used against a student. It is not customarily used as a threat by students against the Headmaster. This is the best magical school in the entire world, and an education here is not an opportunity given to everyone. Are you under the impression that Hogwarts cannot get along without you?’</p>

    <p>And Harry sat there, smiling thinly.</p>

    <p>Sudden horror dawned on Minerva. Surely Harry wouldn’t –</p>

    <p>‘You forget,’ Harry said, ‘that you’re not the only one who can see patterns. <i>This grows private. Now send him</i>&#160;–’ Harry flicked a hand at Severus again, and then stopped in mid-sentence and mid-gesture.</p>

    <p>Minerva could see it on Harry’s face, the moment when he remembered.</p>

    <p>She’d told him, after all.</p>

    <p>‘Mr&#160;Potter,’ said the Headmaster, ‘once again, Severus Snape has my fullest confidence.’</p>

    <p>‘You told him,’ whispered the boy. ‘You utter fool.’</p>

    <p>Dumbledore didn’t react to the insult. ‘Told him what?’</p>

    <p>‘That the Dark Lord is alive.’</p>

    <p><i>‘What in Merlin’s name are you on about, Potter?’</i> cried Severus in tones of sheer astonishment and outrage.</p>

    <p>Harry glanced briefly at him, smiling grimly. ‘Oh, so we <em>are</em> a Slytherin, then,’ Harry said. ‘I was starting to wonder.’</p>

    <p>And then there was silence.</p>

    <p>Finally Dumbledore spoke. His voice was mild. ‘Harry, what <em>are</em> you talking about?’</p>

    <p>‘I’m sorry, Albus,’ Minerva whispered.</p>

    <p>Severus and Dumbledore turned to look at her.</p>

    <p>‘Professor McGonagall didn’t tell me,’ said Harry’s voice, swiftly and less calm than it had been. ‘I guessed. I told you, I can see the patterns too. I guessed, and she controlled her reaction just as Severus did. But her control fell a shade short of perfection, and I could tell it was control, not genuine.’</p>

    <p>‘And I told him,’ said Minerva, her voice trembling a little, ‘that you, and I, and Severus were the only ones who knew.’</p>

    <p>‘Which she did as a concession to prevent me from simply going around asking questions, as I threatened to do if she didn’t talk,’ Harry said. The boy chuckled briefly. ‘I really should have got one of you alone and told you that she told me everything, to see if you let anything slip. Probably wouldn’t have worked, but would have been worth a shot.’ The boy smiled again. ‘Threat’s still on the table and I do expect to be briefed <em>fully</em> at some point.’</p>

    <p>Severus was giving her a look of utter contempt. Minerva raised her chin and bore it. She knew it was deserved.</p>

    <p>Dumbledore leaned back in his padded throne. His eyes were as cold as anything Minerva had seen from him since the day his brother died. ‘And you threaten to abandon us to Voldemort if we do not comply with your wishes.’</p>

    <p>Harry’s voice was razor-sharp. ‘I regret to inform you that you are not the centre of the universe. I’m not threatening to walk out on magical Britain. I’m threatening to walk out on <em>you</em>. I am not a meek little Frodo. This is <em>my</em> quest and if you want in you will play by <em>my</em> rules.’</p>

    <p>Dumbledore’s face was still cold. ‘I am beginning to doubt your suitability as the hero, Mr&#160;Potter.’</p>

    <p>Harry’s return gaze was equally icy. ‘I am beginning to doubt your suitability as my Gandalf, <em>Mr&#160;Dumbledore</em>. Boromir was at least a plausible mistake. What is this <em>Nazgûl</em> doing in my Fellowship?’</p>

    <p>Minerva was completely lost. She looked at Severus, to see if he was following this, and she saw that Severus had turned his face away from Harry’s field of vision and was smiling.</p>

    <p>‘I suppose,’ Dumbledore said slowly, ‘that from your perspective it is a reasonable question. So, Mr&#160;Potter, if Professor Snape is to leave you alone henceforth, will that be the last time this issue arises, or will I find you here every week with a new demand?’</p>

    <p>‘Leave <em>me</em> alone?’ Harry’s voice was outraged. ‘I am not his only victim and certainly not the most vulnerable! <i>Have you forgotten how defenceless children are? How much they hurt?</i> Henceforth Severus will treat <em>every</em> student of Hogwarts with appropriate and professional courtesy, or you will find another Potions Master, or you will find another hero!’</p>

    <p>Dumbledore started laughing. Full-throated, warm, humorous laughter, as if Harry had just performed a comic dance in front of him.</p>

    <p>Minerva didn’t dare move. Her eyes flickered and she saw that Severus was equally motionless.</p>

    <p>Harry’s visage grew even colder. ‘You mistake me, Headmaster, if you think that this is a joke. This is not a request. This is your punishment.’</p>

    <p>‘Mr&#160;Potter&#160;–’ Minerva said. She didn’t even know what she was going to say. She simply couldn’t let that go by.</p>

    <p>Harry made a shushing gesture at her and continued to speak to Dumbledore. ‘And if that seems impolite to you,’ Harry said, his voice now a little less hard, ‘it seemed no less impolite when you said it to me. You would not say such a thing to anyone who you considered a real human being instead of a subordinate child, and I will treat you with just the same courtesy as you treat me&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Oh, indeed, in very deed, this is my punishment if ever there was one! Of <em>course</em> you’re in here blackmailing me to save your fellow students, not to save yourself! I can’t imagine why I would have thought otherwise!’ Dumbledore was now laughing even harder. He pounded his fist on the desk three times.</p>

    <p>Harry’s gaze grew uncertain. His face turned toward her, addressing her for the first time. ‘Excuse me,’ Harry said. His voice seemed to be wavering. ‘Does he need to take his medication or something?’</p>

    <p>‘Ah …’ Minerva had no idea what she could possibly say.</p>

    <p>‘Well,’ said Dumbledore. He wiped away tears that had formed in his eyes. ‘Pardon me. I’m sorry for the interruption. Please continue with the blackmail.’</p>

    <p>Harry opened his mouth, then closed it again. He now seemed a little unsteady. ‘Ah … he’s also to stop reading students’ minds.’</p>

    <p>‘Minerva,’ Severus said, his voice deadly, ‘you&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Sorting Hat warned me,’ said Harry.</p>

    <p><em>‘What?’</em></p>

    <p>‘Can’t say anything else. Anyway I think that’s it. I’m done.’</p>

    <p>Silence.</p>

    <p>‘Now what?’ Minerva said, when it became apparent that no one else was going to say anything.</p>

    <p>‘Now what?’ Dumbledore echoed. ‘Why, now the hero wins, of course.’</p>

    <p><em>‘What?’</em> said Severus, Minerva, and Harry.</p>

    <p>‘Well, he certainly seems to have backed us into a corner,’ Dumbledore said, smiling happily. ‘But Hogwarts <em>does</em> need an evil Potions Master, or it just wouldn’t be a proper magical school, now would it? So how about if Professor Snape is only awful toward students in their fifth year and higher?’</p>

    <p><em>‘What?’</em> said all three of them again.</p>

    <p>‘If it’s the most vulnerable victims about whom you’re concerned. Maybe you’re right, Harry. Maybe I <em>have</em> forgotten over the decades what it’s like to be a child. So let’s compromise. Severus will continue to unfairly award points to Slytherin and impose lax discipline on his House, and he will be awful to non-Slytherin students in their fifth year and higher. To others he will be scary, but not abusive. He will promise to only read minds when the safety of a student requires it. Hogwarts will have its evil Potions Master, and the most vulnerable victims, as you put it, will be safe.’</p>

    <p>Minerva McGonagall was as shocked as she’d ever been in her life. She glanced uncertainly at Severus, whose face had been left completely neutral, as though he couldn’t decide what sort of expression he ought to be wearing.</p>

    <p>‘I suppose that is acceptable,’ Harry said. His voice sounded a bit odd.</p>

    <p>‘You can’t be serious,’ Severus said, his voice as expressionless as his face.</p>

    <p>‘I am very much in favour of this,’ Minerva said slowly. She was so much in favour that her heart was pounding wildly beneath her robes. ‘But what could we possibly tell the students? They might not have questioned this while Severus was … being awful to everyone, but&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Harry can tell the other students that he discovered a terrible secret of Severus’s and did a bit of blackmail,’ said Dumbledore. ‘It’s true, after all; he discovered that Severus was reading minds, and he certainly did blackmail us.’</p>

    <p>‘This is insanity!’ exploded Severus.</p>

    <p>‘Bwah ha ha!’ said Dumbledore.</p>

    <p>‘Ah …’ said Harry uncertainly. ‘And if anyone asks me why fifth years and above got shafted? I wouldn’t blame them for being irate, and that part wasn’t exactly my idea&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Tell them,’ said Dumbledore, ‘that it wasn’t you who suggested the compromise, that it was all you could get. And then refuse to say anything more. That, too, is true. There’s an art to it, you’ll pick it up with practise.’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded slowly. ‘And the points he took from Ravenclaw?’</p>

    <p>‘They must not be given back.’</p>

    <p>It was Minerva who said it.</p>

    <p>Harry looked at her.</p>

    <p>‘I’m sorry, Mr&#160;Potter,’ she said. She <em>was</em> sorry, but it had to be done. ‘There <em>must</em> be some consequences for your misbehaviour or this school will fall to pieces.’</p>

    <p>Harry shrugged. ‘Acceptable,’ he said flatly. ‘But in the future Severus will not strike at my House connections by taking points from me, nor will he waste my valuable time with detentions. Should he feel that my behaviour requires correction, he may communicate his concerns to Professor McGonagall.’</p>

    <p>‘Harry,’ Minerva said, ‘will you continue to submit to school discipline, or are you to be above the law now, as Severus was?’</p>

    <p>Harry looked at her. Something warm touched his gaze, briefly before it was quashed. ‘I will continue to be an ordinary student to every member of the staff who is not insane or evil, provided that they do not come under pressure from others who are.’ Harry glanced briefly at Severus, then turned back to Dumbledore. ‘Leave Minerva alone, and I’ll be a regular Hogwarts student in her presence. No special privileges or immunities.’</p>

    <p>‘Beautiful,’ Dumbledore said sincerely. ‘Spoken like a true hero.’</p>

    <p>‘And,’ she said, ‘Mr&#160;Potter must publicly apologize for his actions of today.’</p>

    <p>Harry gave her another look. This one was a bit skeptical.</p>

    <p>‘The discipline of the school has been gravely injured by your actions, Mr&#160;Potter,’ Minerva said. ‘It must be restored.’</p>

    <p>‘I think, Professor McGonagall, that you considerably overestimate the importance of what you call school discipline, as compared to having History taught by a live teacher or not torturing your students. Maintaining the current status hierarchy and enforcing its rules seems ever so much more wise and moral and important when you are on the top and doing the enforcing than when you are on the bottom, and I can cite studies to this effect if required. I could go on for several hours about this point, but I will leave it at that.’</p>

    <p>Minerva shook her head. ‘Mr&#160;Potter, you underestimate the importance of discipline because you are not in need of it yourself&#160;–’ She paused. That hadn’t come out right, and Severus, Dumbledore, and even Harry were giving her strange looks. ‘To learn, I mean. Not every child can learn in the absence of authority. And it is the other children who will be hurt, Mr&#160;Potter, if they see your example as one to be followed.’</p>

    <p>Harry’s lips curved into a twisted smile. ‘The first and last resort is the truth. The truth is that I shouldn’t have got angry, I shouldn’t have disrupted the class, I shouldn’t have done what I did, and I set a bad example for everyone. The truth is also that Severus Snape behaved in a fashion unbecoming a Hogwarts professor, and that from now on he will be more mindful of the injured feelings of students in their fourth year and under. The two of us could both get up and speak the truth. I could live with that.’</p>

    <p>‘In your dreams, Potter!’ spat Severus.</p>

    <p>‘After all,’ said Harry, smiling grimly, ‘if the students see that rules are for <em>everyone</em> … for professors too, not just for poor helpless students who get nothing but suffering out of the system … why, the positive effects on school discipline should be <em>tremendous.</em>’</p>

    <p>There was a brief pause, and then Dumbledore chuckled. ‘Minerva is thinking that you’re righter than you have any right to be.’</p>

    <p>Harry’s gaze jerked away from Dumbledore, down to the floor. ‘Are <em>you</em> reading <em>her</em> mind?’</p>

    <p>‘Common sense is often mistaken for Legilimency,’ said Dumbledore. ‘I shall talk over this matter with Severus, and no apology will be required from you unless he apologizes as well. And now I declare this matter concluded, at least until lunchtime.’ He paused. ‘Although, Harry, I’m afraid that Minerva wished to speak with you about an additional matter. And that is not the result of any pressure on my part. Minerva, if you would?’</p>

    <p>Minerva rose from her chair and almost fell. There was too much adrenaline in her blood, her heart was beating too fast.</p>

    <p>‘Fawkes,’ said Dumbledore, ‘accompany her, please.’</p>

    <p>‘I don’t&#160;–’ she started to say.</p>

    <p>Dumbledore shot her a look, and she fell silent.</p>

    <p>The phoenix soared across the room like a smooth tongue of flame leaping out, and landed on her shoulder. She felt the warmth through her robes, all through her body.</p>

    <p>‘Please follow me, Mr&#160;Potter,’ she said, firmly now, and they left through the door.</p>

    <hr/>


</div>
</body>
</html>