<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="calibre1">
    <hr/>

    <p>In their designated place in a forest near Hogwarts, the Dragon General and the warriors of Dragon Army waited where their red flame had led them, beneath grey skies.</p>

    <p>At Draco’s right side stood Padma Patil, his second-in-command, who had once led all of Dragon Army after Draco had been stunned. At Draco’s back was Vincent, the son of Crabbe, a family which had served the Malfoys into the distance of forgotten memory; the muscular boy was watchful as he was always watchful, whether battle had been declared or no. Further back, Gregory of the Goyles stood waiting beside one of the two broomsticks Dragon Army had been given; if the Goyles had not served the Malfoys so long as the Crabbes, yet they had served no less well.</p>

    <p>And at Draco’s left side, now, stood one Dean Thomas of Gryffindor, a mudblood or possible half-blood who knew nothing of his father.</p>

    <p>Sending Dean Thomas to Dragon Army had been a quite deliberate move on Harry’s part, Draco was certain. Three other former Chaotics had also been transferred to Dragon Army, and all were watching Draco hawklike to see if he offered the former Lieutenant the slightest insult.</p>

    <p>Some might have called it sabotage, but Draco knew better. Harry had also sent Lieutenant Finnigan to the Sunshine Regiment, even though Professor Quirrell’s mandate had only required that Harry give up <em>one</em> Lieutenant. That too had been a deliberate move, making crystal clear to everyone that Harry <em>wasn’t</em> dumping his least-favoured soldiers.</p>

    <p>In one sense, it might have been easier for Draco to win the true loyalties of his new soldiers if they’d thought Harry hadn’t wanted them. In another sense … well, it wasn’t easy to put into words. Harry had given him good soldiers with their pride intact, but it was more than that. Harry had showed kindliness toward his soldiers, but it was more than <em>that</em>. It wasn’t just Harry playing fair, it was something that … that you couldn’t help but contrast with the way the game was played in Slytherin House.</p>

    <p>So Draco hadn’t offered the slightest insult to Mr&#160;Thomas, but brought him straight to his side, subordinate to himself and Padma but no one else. It was a test, Draco had told Mr&#160;Thomas and everyone, not a promotion. Mr&#160;Thomas would have to show himself worthy of rank within Dragon Army – but he would be given a chance, and the chance <em>would</em> be fair. Mr&#160;Thomas had looked surprised at the ceremony of it (the Chaos Legion, from what Draco had heard, didn’t stand on formality) but the Gryffindor boy had stood a little straighter, and nodded.</p>

    <p>And then, after Mr&#160;Thomas had done well enough in one of Dragon Army’s training sessions, he’d been brought into the strategy session in Dragon Army’s huge military office. And a few minutes into the session, Padma had happened to ask – as though it was a perfectly normal question – whether Mr&#160;Thomas had any ideas about how to defeat the Chaos Legion.</p>

    <p>The Gryffindor boy had said cheerfully that Harry had predicted that General Malfoy would get one of his soldiers to ask him that, and that Harry had given him the message that General Malfoy should ask himself where his relative advantage lay – what Draco Malfoy could do, or what Dragon Army could do, that the Chaos Legion couldn’t match – and then try to exploit it for all it was worth. Dean Thomas couldn’t think of what that advantage might be, but if he <em>did</em> come up with any ideas for beating Chaos, he’d share them. Harry had ordered him to, after all.</p>

    <p><em>Sigh,</em> Draco had thought, since he couldn’t actually sigh out loud. But it was good advice, and Draco had followed it, sitting at his bedroom desk with quill and parchment listing out everything that might be a relative advantage.</p>

    <p>And, almost to Draco’s own surprise, he’d had an idea, a real one. In fact he’d had <em>two.</em></p>

    <p>The hollow bell sounded through the forest, somehow sounding more ominous than ever before. On the instant, the two pilots cried <em>‘Up!’</em> and leapt onto their broomsticks, heading into the grey sky.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Mr&#160;and Mrs&#160;Davis had now slumped slightly against each other, more from sheer muscle exhaustion than from any decrease of tension. Before them, the vast blank white parchment flickered with three great windows, as though holes had been cut through into the forest, showing three armies on the march. Lesser windows showed the six riders upon their broomsticks, and the corner of the parchment showed a view of the entire forest, with glowing dots to indicate armies and scouts.</p>

    <p>The window into Sunshine showed General Granger and her Captains marching in the centre of the Sunshine Regiment, protected by <em>Contego</em> screens along with a number of other young witches. The Sunshine Regiment, the Defence Professor had remarked, knew well that it had now acquired a strong advantage in experienced soldiers, and it meant to protect those soldiers from a surprise attack. Aside from that, the Sunshine Soldiers were moving forward at a steady march, conserving their strength.</p>

    <p>The soldiers in General Malfoy’s army, at least those with higher Transfiguration scores, were picking up leaves and Transfiguring them into … well, if you looked at Padma Patil, who was almost done with hers, it looked like her leaf was becoming a left-handed glove bearing a dangling strap. (The window had zoomed in to show this.)</p>

    <p>Lord Jugson was watching the screen with a flat expression; his voice, when he spoke, seemed to ooze and drip with disdain. ‘What <em>is</em> your son doing, Lucius?’</p>

    <p>The foreign-born witch who stood at Draco Malfoy’s right side had finished Transfiguring her glove, and was now bringing it before the Dragon General like a sacrifice.</p>

    <p>‘I do not know,’ said Lucius Malfoy, his tone calm though no less aristocratic, ‘but I must trust that he has good reason for doing it.’</p>

    <p>All Dragon Army stopped for a moment as Padma slid the glove over her left hand, strapped it in place, and presented it before Draco Malfoy; who also stopped in place, took several deep breaths, raised his wand, executed a precise set of eight movements and bellowed <em>‘Colloportus!’</em></p>

    <p>The Dragon Warrior raised her gloved hand, flexed it, and gave a small bow to Draco Malfoy, who returned it more shallowly, though the Dragon General was staggering slightly. Padma then returned to her place at Draco’s side, and the Dragons began marching once more.</p>

    <p>‘Well,’ remarked Augusta Longbottom. ‘I don’t suppose someone would care to explain?’ Amelia Bones was frowning slightly as she gazed at the screen.</p>

    <p>‘For some reason or other,’ said the amused voice of Professor Quirrell, ‘it seems that the scion of Malfoy is able to cast surprisingly strong magic for a first-year student. Due to the purity of his blood, of course. Certainly the good Lord Malfoy would not have openly flouted the underage magic laws by arranging for his son to receive a wand before his acceptance into Hogwarts.’</p>

    <p>‘I suggest you be careful in your implications, Quirrell,’ Lucius Malfoy said coldly.</p>

    <p>‘Oh, I am,’ Professor Quirrell said. ‘A <i>Colloportus</i> cannot be dispelled by <i>Finite Incantatem;</i> it requires an <em>Alohomora</em> of equal strength. Until then, a glove so Charmed will resist lesser material forces, deflect the Sleep Hex and the Stunning Hex. And as neither Mr&#160;Potter nor Miss&#160;Granger can cast a counter-spell powerful enough, that Charm is invincible upon this battlefield. It is not the original intent of the Charm, nor the intent of whoever taught Mr&#160;Malfoy an emergency spell for evading his enemies. But it would seem that Mr&#160;Malfoy has been learning creativity.’</p>

    <p>Lucius Malfoy had straightened as the Defence Professor spoke; he now sat erect upon his cushioned bench, his head held perceptibly higher than before, and when he spoke it was with quiet pride. ‘He will be the greatest Lord Malfoy that has yet lived.’</p>

    <p>‘Faint praise,’ Augusta Longbottom said under her breath; Amelia Bones chuckled, as did Mr&#160;Davis for a tiny, fatal fraction of a second before he stopped with a strangled gargle.</p>

    <p>‘I quite agree,’ said Professor Quirrell, though it wasn’t clear to whom he spoke. ‘Unfortunately for Mr&#160;Malfoy, he is still new to the art of creativity, and so he has committed a classic error of Ravenclaw.’</p>

    <p>‘And what might that be?’ said Lucius Malfoy, his voice now turned chill once more.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell had leaned back in his seat, the pale blue eyes briefly unfocusing as one of the windows shifted its viewpoint within the greater screen, zooming in to show the sweat now on Draco Malfoy’s forehead. ‘It is such a beautiful idea that Mr&#160;Malfoy has quite overlooked its pragmatic difficulties.’</p>

    <p>‘Would someone care to explain that?’ said Lady Greengrass. ‘Not all of us present are experts at such … affairs.’</p>

    <p>Amelia Bones spoke, the old witch’s voice somewhat dry. ‘It will tempt them to try to catch hexes that they would be wiser to simply dodge. The more so, if they have had little practise catching them. And the casting of so many Charms will tire their strongest warrior.’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell gave the DMLE Director a half-nod of acknowledgement. ‘As you say, Madam Bones. Mr&#160;Malfoy is new to the business of having ideas, and so when he has one, he becomes proud of himself for having it. He has not yet had enough ideas to unflinchingly discard those that are beautiful in some aspects and impractical in others; he has not yet acquired confidence in his own ability to think of better ideas as he requires them. What we are seeing here is not Mr&#160;Malfoy’s best idea, I fear, but rather his only idea.’</p>

    <p>Lord Malfoy simply turned to watch the screens again, as though the Defence Professor had used up his right to exist.</p>

    <p>‘But&#160;–’ said Lord Greengrass. ‘But what in Merlin’s name is Harry Potter&#160;–’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Sixteen remaining soldiers of the Chaos Legion – or fifteen plus Blaise Zabini, rather – marched confidently through the forest, their shoes thudding over the still-dry ground. Their camouflage uniforms blended into the forest even more than usual, all colours washed out by the tints of an overcast day.</p>

    <p>Sixteen Chaos Legionnaires, against twenty-eight Dragon Warriors and twenty-eight Sunshine Soldiers.</p>

    <p>The common consensus had been that, with odds that bad, it was practically impossible for them to lose. After all, General Chaos was bound to come up with something really <em>spectacular,</em> facing odds like that.</p>

    <p>There was something almost nightmarish about how everyone seemed to now expect Harry to pull miracles out of his hat, on demand, any time one was needed. It meant that if you couldn’t do the impossible, you were <i>disappointing your friends</i> and <i>failing to live up to your potential …</i></p>

    <p>Harry hadn’t bothered complaining to Professor Quirrell about <i class="q">too much pressure</i>. Harry’s mental model of the Defence Professor had predicted him looking severely annoyed, saying things along the lines of <i>You are perfectly capable of solving this problem, Mr&#160;Potter; did you even try?</i> and then deducting several hundred Quirrell points.</p>

    <p>From above, from where two broomsticks watched their march, the high young voice of Tess Walsh cried ‘Friend!’ and after another moment, ‘Gingersnap!’</p>

    <p>A handful of seconds later, the soldier who’d code-named herself Gingersnap returned bearing a double handful of acorns, sweating slightly in the cool but humid air from the jog that had taken her to the oak tree Neville had spotted. Gingersnap approached to where Shannon was holding a uniform-shirt with the neck tied off, in lieu of anyone having to Transfigure a bag. When Gingersnap brought her hands forward to try and dump her acorns into the holding-shirt, Chaotic Shannon, giggling, jerked the shirt to the right, then to the left again as Gingersnap made another effort to dump the acorns, until a sharp ‘Miss&#160;Friedman!’ from Lieutenant Nott caused Shannon to sigh and hold the shirt still. Gingersnap dumped her acorns into those accumulated, and then headed out for more.</p>

    <p>Somewhere in the background, Ellie Knight was singing her very own version of the Chaos Legion’s marching song, and around half the other soldiers were trying to step along with it despite not knowing the tune in advance. Nearby, Nita Berdine, who had a high Transfiguration score, finished creating yet another pair of green sunglasses, and handed them to Adam Beringer, who folded up the sunglasses before tucking them into his uniform pocket. Other soldiers were already wearing their own green sunglasses, despite the cloudy day.</p>

    <p>You might guess that there was some sort of incredibly complicated and fascinating explanation behind this, and you would be right.</p>

    <p>Two days earlier Harry had been sitting amid his bookcases in the comfy rocking-chair he’d obtained for his trunk’s cavern level, pondering silently in the quiet span between classes and dinnertime, thinking about power.</p>

    <p>For sixteen Chaotics to defeat twenty-eight Sunnies and twenty-eight Dragons they would need a force amplifier. There were limits to what you could do with manoeuvre. There <em>had</em> to be a secret weapon and it had to be invincible, or at least moderately unstoppable.</p>

    <p>Muggle artifacts were now illegal in Hogwarts’s mock battles, banned by Ministry edict. And the trouble with finding some other clever and unusual spell was that an army twice your own size could brute-force <em>Finite</em> almost anything you tried. The Sunshine Regiment might have missed that tactic with the Transfigured chain mail, but nobody would miss it again now that Professor Quirrell had pointed it out. And <i>Finite Incantatem</i> was a brute-force counter-spell which required at least as much magic as the spell being cancelled … which, if you were severely outnumbered, made it a whole new order of military challenge. The enemy could <em>Finite</em> anything you tried, and still have enough magic left over for shields and volleys of Sleep Hexes.</p>

    <p>Unless, somehow, you could invoke potencies beyond the ordinary strength of first-year Hogwarts students, something too powerful for the enemy to <em>Finite</em>.</p>

    <p>So Harry had asked Neville if he’d ever heard of any <i>small, safe</i> sacrificial rituals –</p>

    <p>And then, after the screaming and the shouting had subsided, after Harry had stopped trying to argue about Unbreakable Vows and just given up the whole thing as impossible from a public relations standpoint, Harry had realized that he hadn’t even needed to go there. They taught you how to invoke potencies far beyond your own strength in ordinary Hogwarts classes.</p>

    <p>Sometimes, even though you were looking straight at something, you didn’t realize <em>what</em> you were looking at until you happened to ask exactly the right question.</p>

    <p class="thought">Defence. Charms. Transfiguration. Potions. History of Magic. Astronomy. Broomstick Flying. Herbology …</p>

    <p><em>‘Foe!’</em> screamed the voice from above.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>It was a good thing that Neville Longbottom hadn’t the tiniest idea that his grandmother was watching; or he would’ve been more self-conscious about screaming scary battlecries at the top of his lungs while casting <em>Luminos</em> every three seconds as he rocketed through a dense forest of trees, hot on the tail of Gregory Goyle.</p>

    <p>(‘But&#160;–’ Augusta Longbottom said, her expression showing almost as much astonishment as worry. ‘But Neville is afraid of heights!’)</p>

    <p>(‘Not all fears last,’ said Amelia Bones. The old witch was favouring the great screen before them with a measuring gaze. ‘Or perhaps he has found courage. It is much the same, in the end.’)</p>

    <p>A glimmer of red –</p>

    <p>Neville dodged, very nearly into a tree but he did dodge; and then Neville somehow also managed to dodge <em>almost</em> all of the branches before they smacked him in the face.</p>

    <p>Now Mr&#160;Goyle’s broomstick was pulling further and further away – even though the two of them were riding exactly the same broomstick and Mr&#160;Goyle weighed more, somehow Neville was still falling behind. So Neville slowed down, pulled back, angled up out of the forest and began to accelerate back toward where the Chaos Legion still marched.</p>

    <p>Twenty seconds later – it hadn’t been a long chase, just an <em>exciting</em> one – Neville was back among his fellow Chaotics, and dismounted his broom to walk on the ground for a little bit.</p>

    <p>‘Neville&#160;–’ said General Potter. Harry’s voice was a little distant, as he walked carefully and steadily through the forest, his wand still applied to the almost-finished Form of the object he was slowly Transfiguring. Beside him, Blaise Zabini, working a smaller version of the same Transfiguration, looked like a shambling Inferi as he stumbled forward. ‘I told you – Neville – you don’t have to&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Yes, I do,’ said Neville. He looked down at where his fingers grasped the broomstick, and saw that not just his hands, but his whole arms were shaking. But unless anyone else in Chaos had been practising duelling for an hour a day with Mr&#160;Diggory, and then practising their aim in private for another hour afterwards, Neville was probably the best shot from a broomstick even after taking into account that he wasn’t a very good flyer.</p>

    <p>‘Good show, Neville,’ Theodore said from where he was walking ahead of them all, leading the Chaos Legion forward through the forest while wearing only his under-shirt.</p>

    <p>(Augusta Longbottom and Charles Nott exchanged brief astonished glances and then wrenched their gazes away from one another as though stung.)</p>

    <p>Neville took a few deep breaths, trying to steady his hands, trying to think; Harry might not be good for deep strategic thinking while he was in the middle of an extended Transfiguration. ‘Lieutenant Nott, do you have any idea why Dragon Army just did that? They lost a broom&#160;–’ The Dragons had started the combat with a feint to provide a distraction for Mr&#160;Goyle’s approach through the forest; Neville hadn’t realized there were <em>two</em> brooms attacking until almost too late. But the Chaos Legion had <em>got</em> the other pilot. That was why broomsticks usually didn’t attack before armies met, it meant a whole army would concentrate fire on the broomstick. ‘And the Dragons didn’t even get anyone, did they?’</p>

    <p>‘Nope!’ Tracey Davis said proudly. She too was now marching by General Potter’s side, her wand gripped low and watchful as her eyes scanned the surrounding forest. ‘I threw up a Prismatic Sphere like a split second before Mr&#160;Goyle’s hex got Zabini, and the way Mr&#160;Goyle had his other arm stretched out I think he planned to knock down the General, too.’ The Slytherin witch smiled with vicious confidence. ‘Mr&#160;Goyle tried a Breaking Drill Hex, but learned to his dismay that his weak magic was no match for my newfound dark powers, hahahaha!’</p>

    <p>Some Chaotics laughed with her, but a queasy sensation was starting in Neville’s stomach as he realized how close the Chaos Legion had come to complete disaster. If Mr&#160;Goyle had managed to disrupt both Transfigurations –</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>‘Report!’ snapped the Dragon General, doing his best to conceal the fatigue he felt after casting seventeen Locking Charms, with more yet to come.</p>

    <p>Beads of sweat now dotted Gregory’s forehead. ‘The enemy downed Dylan Vaughan,’ Gregory said formally. ‘Harry Potter and Blaise Zabini were each Transfiguring something dark-grey and roundish, I don’t think it was finished but it looked like it would be big and hollow, sort of cauldron-shaped. Zabini’s was smaller than Potter’s. I couldn’t get either of them or disrupt their Transfigurations, Tracey Davis blocked me. Neville Longbottom is on a broomstick and he’s still a terrible flyer but his aim is really good.’</p>

    <p>Draco listened, frowning, and then he glanced at Padma and Dean Thomas, who both shook their own heads, indicating that they also couldn’t think of what might be big and grey and shaped like a cauldron.</p>

    <p>‘Anything else?’ said Draco. If that was it, they’d lost a broom for nothing –</p>

    <p>‘The only other weird thing I saw,’ Gregory said, sounding puzzled, ‘was that some Chaotics were wearing … sort of like goggles?’</p>

    <p>Draco thought about this, not noticing that he’d stopped marching or that all of Dragon Army had automatically stopped with him.</p>

    <p>‘Was there anything special about the goggles?’ Draco said.</p>

    <p>‘Um …’ Gregory said. ‘They were … greenish, maybe?’</p>

    <p>‘Okay,’ said Draco. Again without thinking, he began walking once more and his Dragons followed. ‘Here’s our new strategy. We’re only going to send eleven Dragons against the Chaos Legion, not fourteen. That should be enough to beat them, now that we can neutralize their special advantage.’ It was a gamble, but you had to take gambles sometimes, if you wanted to come in first in a three-way battle.</p>

    <p>‘You figured out Chaos’s plan, General Malfoy?’ said Mr&#160;Thomas with considerable surprise.</p>

    <p>‘What are they doing?’ said Padma.</p>

    <p>‘I haven’t the faintest idea,’ said Draco, with a smirk of the most refined smugness. ‘We’ll just do the obvious thing.’</p>


</div>
</body>
</html>