<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
<div class="calibre1">
    <p><i>Hypothesis: G. L. (April 8th, 1992, 8:08pm)</i></p>

    <hr/>

    <p>The Floo-Fire of the Headmaster’s office blazed a bright pale-green, the fire concentrating in on itself into a spinning emeraldine whirlwind, and then flared even brighter and spat a human figure into the air –</p>

    <p>There was a blur of motion as the resolving figure snapped up a wand, smoothly spinning with the Floo’s momentum like a ballet dance step, so that his firing arc covered the entire 360-degree arc of the room; and then just as abruptly, the figure stopped in place.</p>

    <p>In the first instant that Harry saw that man, before Harry even took in the eye, he noticed the scars on the hands, the scars on the face, like the man had been burned and cut over his entire body; though only the man’s hands and face were visible, of all his flesh. The rest of the man’s body was hidden, encased not in robes, but in leather that looked more like armour than clothing; dark grey leather, matching the man’s mop of greyed hair.</p>

    <p>The next thing that Harry’s vision comprehended was the brilliant blue eye occupying the right side of the man’s face.</p>

    <p>One part of Harry’s mind realized that the person whom Professor McGonagall had named <i class="q">Mad-Eye Moody</i> was the same as the one Dumbledore had called <i class="q">Alastor</i>, within the memory Dumbledore had shown Harry; an image from before whatever event had scarred every inch of the man’s body and taken a chunk out of his nose –</p>

    <p>And another part of his mind noticed the jolt of adrenaline. Harry had drawn his wand in sheer reflex when the man had spun out of the Floo like that, there’d been something about it that felt like <em>ambush,</em> Harry’s hand had already started to level his wand for a <em>Somnium</em> before he’d managed to stop himself. Even now the armoured man was holding his wand level, not pointed at any particular person but covering the whole room, and that wand was already in perfect line with his eyes, like a soldier sighting down a gun. There was danger in the man’s stance and the set of his boots, danger in the leather armour he wore and danger in that brilliant blue eye.</p>

    <p>When the scarred man spoke, addressing the Headmaster, his voice was edged. ‘I suppose you think this room is secure?’</p>

    <p>‘There are only friends here,’ Dumbledore said.</p>

    <p>The man’s head jerked toward Harry. ‘That include <em>him?</em>’</p>

    <p>‘If Harry Potter is not our friend,’ Dumbledore said gravely, ‘then we are all certainly doomed; so we may as well assume that he is.’</p>

    <p>The man’s wand stayed level, not quite pointing at Harry. ‘Boy almost drew on me just then.’</p>

    <p>‘Er …’ Harry said. He noticed that his hand was still tightly holding the wand, and consciously relaxed his hand and dropped it back to his side. ‘Sorry about that, you looked a bit … combat-ready.’</p>

    <p>The scarred man’s wand moved slightly away from where it had almost pointed at Harry, though it didn’t lower, and the man let out a short bark of laughter. ‘Constant vigilance, eh, lad?’ said the man.</p>

    <p>‘It’s not paranoia if they really are out to get you,’ Harry recited the proverb.</p>

    <p>The man turned fully toward Harry; and insofar as Harry could read any expression on the scarred face, the man now looked <em>interested</em>.</p>

    <p>Dumbledore’s eyes had regained some of the brilliant twinkle that they’d had before the Azkaban breakout, a smile beneath his silver moustache as though that smile had never left. ‘Harry, this is Alastor Moody, called also Mad-Eye, who will command the Order of the Phoenix after me – if anything should happen to me, that is. Alastor, this is Harry Potter. I have every hope the two of you shall get along <em>fantastically</em>.’</p>

    <p>‘I’ve heard a good deal about you, boy,’ said Mad-Eye Moody. His one dark natural eye stayed fixed on Harry, while the point of brilliant blue spun frantically, seeming to rotate all the way around within its socket. ‘Not all of it good. Heard they’re calling you the Dementor Spooker, in the Department.’</p>

    <p>After some consideration, Harry decided to reply with a knowing smile.</p>

    <p>‘How’d you pull off that one, boy?’ the man said softly. Now his blue eye was fixed on Harry as well. ‘I had a little chat with one of the Aurors who escorted the Dementor there from Azkaban. Beth Martin said it came straight from the pit, and no-one gave it any special instructions along the way. Of course, she could be lying.’</p>

    <p>‘There wasn’t any sneaky trick to that one,’ Harry said. ‘I just did it the hard way. Of course, I could also be lying.’</p>

    <p>Dumbledore was leaning back in his chair, chuckling in the background, like he was just another device in the Headmaster’s Office and that was the sound he made.</p>

    <p>The scarred man turned back to face the Headmaster, though his wand stayed pointed low and in Harry’s general direction. When he spoke his voice was gruff and businesslike. ‘I have a lead on a recent host of Voldie’s. You’re certain his shade is in Hogwarts now?’</p>

    <p>‘Not <em>certain</em>&#160;–’ Dumbledore began.</p>

    <p>‘Say <em>what?</em>’ Harry interrupted. After having nearly concluded that the Dark Lord didn’t exist, it was a shock to hear it being discussed that matter-of-factly.</p>

    <p>‘Voldie’s host,’ Moody said shortly. ‘The one he possessed before he took over Granger.’</p>

    <p>‘If the tales speak true,’ Dumbledore said, ‘there is some device of power which binds Voldemort’s shade to this world; and by that means he may bargain with a host for possession of their body, conferring on them some portion of his power and his pride&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘So the obvious question is who’s gained too much power too quickly,’ Moody said abruptly. ‘And it turns out that there’s a fellow who’s gone and banished the Bandon Banshee, staked an entire rogue vampire clan in Asia, tracked down the Wagga-Wagga Werewolf, and exterminated a pack of ghouls using a tea-strainer. <em>And</em> he’s milking it for all it’s worth; there’s been talk of the Order of Merlin. Seems to have turned into a charmer and a politician, not just a powerful wizard.’</p>

    <p>‘Dear me,’ murmured Dumbledore. ‘Are you certain that he is not relying on his own skills?’</p>

    <p>‘Checked his grades,’ Moody said. ‘Record shows Gilderoy Lockhart received a Troll in his Defence O.W.L.s, didn’t bother with the N.E.W.T. Just the sort of sucker to take the deal Voldie was offering.’ The blue eye whirled crazily within its socket. ‘Unless you remember Lockhart as a student, and think he had enough potential to do all that by himself?’</p>

    <p>‘No,’ said Professor McGonagall. She frowned. ‘Not a chance, I should say.’</p>

    <p>‘I fear I must agree,’ Dumbledore said with an undertone of pain. ‘Ah, Gilderoy, you poor fool …’</p>

    <p>Moody’s grin was more like a snarl. ‘Three in the morning work for you, Albus? Lockhart should be at his home tonight.’</p>

    <p>Harry listened to this with increasing alarm, wondering if even the <em>Ministry</em> had any rules about magistrates needing to issue warrants – never mind the illegal vigilante organization Harry now seemed to have joined. ‘Excuse me,’ Harry said. ‘What <em>exactly</em> happens at three in the morning?’</p>

    <p>There must have been something in Harry’s voice that gave him away, because the scarred man whirled on him. ‘You have a problem with that, boy?’</p>

    <p>Harry paused, trying to figure out how to phrase this to the stranger –</p>

    <p>‘You want to take him down yourself?’ pressed the scarred man. ‘Get revenge for your parents, eh?’</p>

    <p>‘No,’ Harry said as politely he could. ‘Honestly – look, if we knew for <em>certain</em> he was a willing host for You-Know-Who, that’s one thing, but if we’re <em>not</em> sure and you’re heading off to kill him&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Kill?’ Mad-Eye Moody snorted. ‘It’s what’s locked up in his head,’ Moody tapped his forehead, ‘that we need from him, boy. If we’re lucky, Voldie can’t wipe the sucker’s memories as easy as in his living days, and Lockhart will remember what the horcrux looked like.’</p>

    <p>Harry mentally noted down the word <em>horcrux</em> for future research, and said, ‘I’m just worried that someone innocent – what sounds like a pretty decent person, if he <em>did</em> do all that himself – might be about to get hurt.’</p>

    <p>‘Aurors hurt people,’ the scarred man said shortly. ‘Bad people, if you’re lucky. Some days you won’t be lucky, and that’s all there is to it. Just remember, Dark Wizards hurt a lot more people than we do.’</p>

    <p>Harry took a deep breath. ‘Can you at least <em>try</em> not to hurt this person, in case he’s <em>not –</em>’</p>

    <p>‘What is a first-year doing in this room, Albus?’ demanded the scarred man, now whirling to face the Headmaster. ‘And don’t tell me it’s for what he did when he was a baby.’</p>

    <p>‘Harry Potter is not an ordinary first-year,’ the Headmaster said quietly. ‘He has already accomplished feats impossible enough to shock even me, Alastor. His is the only intellect in the Order which might someday match that of Voldemort himself, as you or I never could.’</p>

    <p>The scarred man leaned over the Headmaster’s desk. ‘He’s a liability. Naive. Doesn’t know a bloody thing about what war’s like. I want him out of here and all his memories of the Order wiped before one of Voldie’s servants plucks them straight out of his mind&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘I’m an Occlumens, actually.’</p>

    <p>Mad-Eye Moody directed a narrow look at the Headmaster, who nodded.</p>

    <p>And then the scarred man turned to face Harry, their gazes meeting.</p>

    <p>The sudden fury of the Legilimency attack almost made Harry fall off his chair, as a blade of white-hot steel cut into the imaginary person at the forefront of his mind. Harry hadn’t had a chance to practise since Mr&#160;Bester’s training, and Harry very nearly lost his grip on the imaginary person the back-of-his-mind was pretending to be, as that person’s world turned into searing lava and a furious probe of questions. Harry almost lost his grip on only <em>pretending</em> to hallucinate, only <em>pretending</em> to be the imaginary person that was screaming in shock and pain as the Legilimency tore apart his sanity and reshaped him to believe that he was on fire –</p>

    <p>Harry managed to break eye contact, dropping his eyes to Moody’s chin.</p>

    <p>‘You’re out of practise, boy,’ Moody said. Harry wasn’t looking at the man’s face, but his voice was deadly grim. ‘And I’ll warn you of this but once. Voldie isn’t like any other Legilimens in recorded history. He doesn’t need to look you in the eyes, and if your shields are that rusty he’d creep in so softly you’d never notice a thing.’</p>

    <p>‘Duly noted,’ Harry said to the scarred chin. Harry was more shaken than he’d have admitted; Mr&#160;Bester hadn’t been anywhere near that powerful, and had never tested Harry like <em>that</em>. Pretending to be someone hurting that much had … Harry couldn’t find words for describing what it felt like to contain an imaginary person in that much pain, but it hadn’t been <em>normal</em>. ‘Do I get any credit for being an Occlumens in the first place?’</p>

    <p>‘So you’re think you’re all grown up already, eh? Look me in the eyes!’</p>

    <p>Harry strengthened his shields, and looked once more into the dark grey eye and the brilliant blue.</p>

    <p>‘Ever watched someone die?’ asked Mad-Eye Moody.</p>

    <p>‘My parents,’ Harry said evenly. ‘I recovered the memory in January when I went in front of a Dementor to learn the Patronus Charm. I remember You-Know-Who’s voice&#160;–’ A chill went through Harry’s body, his wand twitching in his hand. ‘My main tactical report is that You-Know-Who could speak the Killing Curse in less than half a second, but you probably already knew that.’</p>

    <p>There was a gasp from Professor McGonagall’s direction, and Severus’s face had tightened.</p>

    <p>‘All right,’ Mad-Eye Moody said softly. A strange, thin grin twisted up the lips within the scarred face. ‘I’ll make you the same offer I’d make to any trainee Auror. Land one touch on me, boy – one hit, one spell – and I’ll concede your right to talk back to me.’</p>

    <p>‘Alastor!’ exclaimed Professor McGonagall’s voice. ‘Surely that’s an unreasonable test! Mr&#160;Potter, whatever his other merits, does not have a hundred years of fighting experience!’</p>

    <p>Harry’s eyes made a lightning dart around the room, passing over the peculiar devices, glancing past Dumbledore and Severus and the Sorting Hat, settling briefly here and there. Harry couldn’t see Professor McGonagall from where he was, but that didn’t matter. There was only one device he’d really wanted to look at, and the point of all the other glances had just been to conceal which one.</p>

    <p>‘All righty,’ Harry said, and hopped off his chair, ignoring Professor McGonagall’s inhalation and the Potions Master’s snort of disbelief. Dumbledore’s eyebrows had lifted, and Moody was grinning like a tiger. ‘Be sure to wake me up in forty minutes if he does get me.’ Harry settled into a duellist’s starting stance, his wand held low. ‘Let’s go, then&#160;–’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Harry opened his eyes, his head feeling like it had been stuffed with cotton wool.</p>

    <p>Everyone else was gone from the Headmaster’s office, the Floo-Fire dimmed; only Dumbledore still waited behind the desk.</p>

    <p>‘Hello, Harry,’ the Headmaster said quietly.</p>

    <p>‘I didn’t even see him <em>move,</em>’ Harry marvelled, muscles creaking as he sat up.</p>

    <p>‘You were standing two paces away from Alastor Moody,’ said Dumbledore, ‘and you took your eye off his wand.’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded, as he took the Cloak of Invisibility out of his pouch. ‘I mean – I was taking the duelling stance so that he’d think I was a standard idiot and underestimate me – but I have to admit, <em>that</em> was impressive.’</p>

    <p>‘So you planned it all along, Harry?’ Dumbledore said.</p>

    <p>‘Of course,’ Harry said. ‘Note how I’m doing this as soon as I wake up, rather than pausing to think of it.’</p>

    <p>Harry drew the hood of the Cloak over his head, and glanced back up at the wall clock he’d surreptitiously glanced at earlier.</p>

    <p>It had then shown around twenty-three minutes after eight, and now it was five minutes after nine.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Minerva stared as the boy put himself into the duelling stance, his wand held low. For a second Minerva wondered if Harry might possibly – no, that was completely ridiculous, it was <i>Mad-Eye Moody</i> and that was beyond impossible. Of course that was what she’d thought about his partial Transfiguration, too …</p>

    <p>‘Let’s go, then,’ Harry said and fell over.</p>

    <p>Severus gave a single chuckle. ‘Mr&#160;Potter has his points, I must confess,’ the Potions Master said. ‘Though I would never say it while he was awake, and if you repeat the words I shall deny them, for the boy’s ego is quite large enough already. Mr&#160;Potter does have his points, Mad-Eye, but duelling is not among them.’</p>

    <p>Mad-Eye’s own chuckle was lower and grimmer. ‘Oh, yes,’ said Mad-Eye. ‘Only fools duel. Standing like that and waiting for me to attack, what <em>was</em> the boy thinking? Why, I ought to give him a scar, to remember this occasion&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Alastor!’ barked Albus, just as she cried ‘Stop!’, Severus dashed forward, and Mad-Eye Moody deliberately levelled his wand on Harry Potter’s body.</p>

    <p><em>‘Stupefy!’</em></p>

    <p>Mad-Eye’s body seemed to almost flicker as he spun on his wooden foot like lightning, faster than she’d ever seen anyone move without magic, the red Stunning Hex passing through the suddenly empty air and barely missing Severus to crash into the opposite wall, and by the time her eyes jerked back to Moody there were seventeen radiant orbs in the pattern of a <i>Sagitta Magica,</i> visible for only an instant before they streaked brilliance and struck <em>something</em> that fell to the floor with a thud –</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>‘Hello again, Harry,’ said Dumbledore.</p>

    <p>‘I cannot <em>believe</em> that guy’s reaction time,’ Harry said, brushing off his Cloak as he stood up from where he’d been lying invisible on the floor, unseen by his previous self. ‘I can’t believe his movement speed either. I’m going to have to figure out some way to zap him without speaking an incantation that gives it away …’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>– and then Mad-Eye ducked hard and fast, his hands hitting flat on the floor. She almost didn’t see the two tiny white threads passing through the space he’d been, but her eyes went to the blue spark when the threads impacted on one of the Headmaster’s devices, and by the time she managed to turn her eyes back, Mad-Eye had spun smoothly up to his feet, his wand was dancing unseeably fast and there was another thudding sound –</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>‘Hello again, Harry.’</p>

    <p>‘Pardon me, Headmaster, but could you let me go down your stairs, and then come back up again, before I make the final jump backward? This is going to take longer than one hour of preparation&#160;–’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Minerva gaped at Mad-Eye Moody, who hadn’t lowered his wand in the slightest; and Severus had a look on his face that was almost like shock.</p>

    <p>‘Well, boy?’ said Mad-Eye Moody. ‘What else have you got?’</p>

    <p>Harry Potter’s head appeared, floating in mid-air as an invisible hand drew back the hood of his invisibility cloak.</p>

    <p>‘That eye,’ said Harry Potter. There was a strange fierce light in the boy’s eyes. ‘That isn’t any ordinary device. It can see right through my invisibility cloak. You dodged my Transfigured taser as soon as I started raising it, even though I didn’t speak any incantations. And now that I’ve watched it again – you spotted all my Time-Turned selves the moment you Flooed into this room, didn’t you?’</p>

    <p>Mad-Eye Moody was smiling, the same teeth-bared grin she’d seen him wear as they’d faced off against Voldemort himself. ‘Spend a hundred years hunting Dark wizards, and you see everything,’ said Moody. ‘I once arrested a young Japanese who tried a similar trick. He found out the hard way that his shadow replica technique was no match for this eye of mine.’</p>

    <p>‘You see in all directions,’ Harry Potter said, that strange fierce light still in his gaze. ‘No matter where that eye is pointing, it sees everything around you.’</p>

    <p>Moody’s tiger-grin grew wider. ‘There’s no more of you in this room, now,’ Mad-Eye said. ‘Think that’s because you’ll give up after this time, or because you’ll win? Any bets, boy?’</p>

    <p>‘It’s my final attempt because I decided to stake my last three hours on one shot,’ said Harry Potter. ‘As for whether I win&#160;–’</p>

    <p>There was a blur filling the whole air of the Headmaster’s office. Mad-Eye Moody leapt to one side with blinding speed and an instant later Harry’s head darted backward as he cried <em>‘Stuporfy!’</em></p>

    <p>Three shimmers in the air went past Harry’s moving head, just as a red bolt erupted from Harry’s location, shooting past Moody as he dodged in yet another direction –</p>

    <p>If she’d blinked, she would have missed it, the red bolt making an angled turn in mid-air and slamming into Moody’s ear.</p>

    <p>Moody fell.</p>

    <p>Harry Potter’s floating head dropped to the height of a first-year on their hands and knees, then dropped further to the ground, his face showing sudden exhaustion.</p>

    <p>Minerva McGonagall said, ‘What in <i>Merlin’s name</i> just&#160;–’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>‘So you went to Flitwick, then,’ Moody said. The retired Auror was now sitting in a chair, drinking long draughts from a restorative in a bottle he’d taken off his belt.</p>

    <p>Harry Potter nodded, now sitting in his own chair instead of perched on an armrest. ‘I tried the Defence Professor first, but&#160;–’ The boy grimaced. ‘He … wasn’t available. Well, I’d decided it was worth risking five House points, and if you say a risk is worth it, you can’t complain when you have to pay up. Anyway, I figured that if you had an eye that saw things other people couldn’t see, then as Isaac Asimov pointed out in <i>Second Foundation</i>, the weapon to use is a brilliant light. Read enough science fiction, you know, and you’ll read everything at least once. Anyway, I told Professor Flitwick that I needed a Charm that would make a huge number of shapes, bright and flickering and filling the whole office, but invisible, so only your eye could see them. I had no idea what it would even <em>mean</em> to cast an illusion and then make it invisible, but I figured if I didn’t mention that out loud, Professor Flitwick would just do it anyway, and he did. Turns out there was no spell like that I could cast myself, but Flitwick Charmed me a one-time device for it – though I had to persuade him that it wasn’t cheating, since nothing could <em>possibly</em> be cheating against an Auror who’d lived long enough to retire. And then I still didn’t see how I could hit you, when you were moving that fast. So I asked about targeted spells, and that was when Flitwick showed me that hex I cast at the end, the Swerving Stunner. It’s one of Professor Flitwick’s own inventions – he’s a champion duellist as well as a Charms Master&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘I know that, son.’</p>

    <p>‘Sorry. Anyway, the Professor says he left the duelling circuit before he got a chance to use that spell, since it only works as a finishing move on an unshielded opponent. The hex gets as close to the target as possible along its original trajectory, and then once it detects that the target is getting more distant again, the hex turns in mid-air and heads straight for the target. It can only swerve once – but the incantation sounds very close to “Stupefy” and the hex is the same red colour, so if the enemy thinks it’s a regular Stunning Hex and tries a normal dodge, that mid-air retargeting will finish them off. Oh, and the Professor requested that none of us talk about his special move, just in case he does get a chance to use it during competition some day.’</p>

    <p>‘But&#160;–’ said Professor McGonagall. She glanced at Mad-Eye Moody, who was nodding his approval, and at Severus, who was keeping his face decidedly blank. ‘Mr&#160;Potter, you just stunned <i>Mad-Eye Moody!</i> The most famous Dark wizard hunter in the history of the Auror Office! That should’ve been impossible!’</p>

    <p>Moody let out a dark chuckle. ‘What’s <em>your</em> answer to that one, kid? I’m curious.’</p>

    <p>‘Well …’ Harry said. ‘First of all, Professor McGonagall, neither of us was fighting seriously.’</p>

    <p><i>‘Neither of you?’</i></p>

    <p>‘Of course,’ Harry said. ‘In a serious fight, Mr&#160;Moody would’ve dropped all my copies immediately without waiting for them to attack. And on my side, if it was <em>actually</em> necessary to take down the most famous Auror in the history of the office, I’d get Headmaster Dumbledore to do it for me. And beyond that … since that <em>wasn’t</em> a real fight …’ Harry paused. ‘How can I put this? Wizards are used to duels where people fight back and forth with spells for a while. But if two Muggles with guns stand in a small room and fire bullets at each other … then whoever hits first, wins. And if one of them is deliberately missing his shots, giving the other person one chance after another – like Mr&#160;Moody gave me one chance after another – well, you’d have to be pretty pathetic to lose.’</p>

    <p>‘Oh, not <em>that</em> pathetic,’ Moody said with a slightly threatening grin.</p>

    <p>Harry didn’t seem to notice. ‘You might say that Mr&#160;Moody was testing me to see if I would try to <em>fight</em> him, or try to <em>win.</em> That is, whether I’d carry out the <em>role</em> of somebody fighting – use standard spells I already knew, even though I didn’t expect the <em>consequences</em> of that action to be victory – or if I’d search through unusual plans until I found something that <em>could</em> win. Like the difference between a student who sits in class because that’s what students do, versus a student who cares enough to ask themselves what it takes to <em>actually</em> learn a piece of material, and practises however necessary – you see, Professor McGonagall? When you look at it that way – realize that Mr&#160;Moody was giving me chances, and that I shouldn’t attack in the first place unless I think I can win – then I don’t come out looking so well, since it actually took me three tries to get him. Plus, like I said, in a real fight Mr&#160;Moody could’ve turned <em>himself</em> invisible, or put up shields&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Don’t go relying too much on shields, boy,’ Mad-Eye said. The leather-clad Auror took another sip from his restorative flask. ‘What you learn in your first year at the academy doesn’t stay true forever, not against the strongest Dark Wizards. Every shield ever made, there’s some curse that goes straight through it, if you’re not quick enough to cast the counter. And there’s one curse that goes through everything, and it’s a curse any Death Eater will use.’</p>

    <p>Harry Potter nodded gravely. ‘Right, some spells are impossible to block. I’ll remember that, in case anyone casts the Killing Curse at me. Again.’</p>

    <p>‘That kind of cleverness gets people killed, boy, and don’t you forget it.’</p>

    <p>A sad-sounding sigh from the Boy-Who-Lived. ‘I know. Sorry.’</p>

    <p>‘So, son. You had something to say about when Albus and I go after Lockhart?’</p>

    <p>Harry opened his mouth, then paused. ‘I won’t tell you how to run a war,’ the Boy-Who-Lived said eventually. ‘I don’t have any experience at that. All I know is that there are consequences. Please be advised that my own assessment is that Lockhart is probably innocent, so if you can avoid hurting him without too much risk&#160;–’ The boy shrugged. ‘I don’t know the cost. Just please, if you can, be careful not to hurt him if he’s innocent.’</p>

    <p>‘If I can,’ said Moody.</p>

    <p>‘And – you’re aiming to look through his mind for evidence about the Dark Lord, aren’t you? I don’t know what the rules are in magical Britain about admissible evidence – but everyone’s always guilty of breaking <em>some</em> law or another, there’s just too many laws. So if it’s <em>not</em> about the Dark Lord, don’t turn him in to the Ministry, just Obliviate him and go, okay?’</p>

    <p>Moody frowned. ‘Son, nobody gains power that fast without being up to <em>something.</em>’</p>

    <p>‘Then leave it for the ordinary Aurors, if and when they find evidence the ordinary way. Please, Mr&#160;Moody. Call it a quirk of my Muggle upbringing, but if it’s <em>not</em> about the war I don’t want us to be the evil police who break into people’s houses in the middle of the night, rummage through their minds and send them off to Azkaban.’</p>

    <p>‘I don’t see the sense of it, son, but I suppose I could do you the favour.’</p>

    <p>‘Is there aught else, Alastor?’ inquired Albus.</p>

    <p>‘Yes,’ said Moody. ‘About that Defence Professor of yours&#160;–’</p>

    <p class="thought">Hypothesis: Gilderoy Lockhart: END</p>

    <hr/>


</div>
</body>
</html>