<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
<div class="calibre1">
    <p><i>Yes,</i> Professor Quirrell had said, <i>it must be in front of everyone, in front of your friends, because that is where Snape confronted you and that is where you must learn to lose.</i></p>

    <p>So now the first year watched. In magically enforced silence, and with requests from both Harry and the professor not to intervene. Hermione had her face turned away, but she hadn’t spoken out or even given him any sort of significant look, maybe because she’d been there in Potions too.</p>

    <p>Harry stood on a soft blue mat, such as might be found in a Muggle dojo, which Professor Quirrell had laid out upon the floor for when Harry was pushed down.</p>

    <p>Harry was frightened of what he might do. If Professor Quirrell was right about his intent to kill …</p>

    <p>Harry’s wand lay on Professor Quirrell’s desk, not because Harry knew any spells that could defend him, but because otherwise (Harry thought) he might have tried to jam it through someone’s eye socket. His pouch lay there, now containing his protected but still potentially fragile Time-Turner.</p>

    <p>Harry had pleaded with Professor Quirrell to Transfigure him some boxing gloves and lock them on his hands. Professor Quirrell had given him a look of silent understanding, and refused.</p>

    <p><i>I will not go for their eyes, I will not go for their eyes, I will not go for their eyes, it would be the end of my life in Hogwarts, I’ll be arrested,</i> Harry chanted to himself, trying to hammer the thought into his brain, hoping it would stay there if his intent to kill took over.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell returned, escorting thirteen older Slytherins of different years. Harry recognized one of them as the one he’d hit with a pie. Two others from that confrontation were also present. The one who’d said to stop, that they really shouldn’t do this, was missing.</p>

    <p>‘I repeat,’ Professor Quirrell said, sounding very stern, ‘Potter is <em>not</em> to be really hurt. Any and all <em>accidents</em> will be treated as deliberate. Do you understand?’</p>

    <p>The older Slytherins nodded, grinning.</p>

    <p>‘Then please feel free to take the Boy-Who-Lived down a few pegs,’ Professor Quirrell said, with a twisted smile that only the first-years understood.</p>

    <p>By some form of mutual consent, the pie-target was at the front of the group.</p>

    <p>‘Potter,’ said Professor Quirrell, ‘meet Mr&#160;Peregrine Derrick. He is better than you and he is about to show you that.’</p>

    <p>Derrick strode forward and Harry’s brain screamed discordantly, he must not run away, he must not fight back –</p>

    <p>Derrick stopped an arm’s length away from Harry.</p>

    <p>Harry wasn’t angry yet, just frightened. And that meant he beheld a teenage boy fully half a metre taller than himself, with clearly defined muscles, facial hair, and a grin of terrible anticipation.</p>

    <p>‘Ask him not to hurt you,’ Professor Quirrell said. ‘Perhaps if he sees that you’re pathetic enough, he’ll decide that you’re boring, and go away.’</p>

    <p>There was laughter from the watching older Slytherins.</p>

    <p>‘Please,’ Harry said, his voice faltering, ‘don’t, hurt, me …’</p>

    <p>‘That didn’t sound very sincere,’ said Professor Quirrell.</p>

    <p>Derrick’s smile widened. The clumsy imbecile was looking very superior and …</p>

    <p>… Harry’s blood temperature was dropping …</p>

    <p>‘Please don’t hurt me,’ Harry tried again.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell shook his head. ‘How in Merlin’s name did you manage to make that sound like an insult, Potter? There is only one response you can possibly expect from Mr&#160;Derrick.’</p>

    <p>Derrick stepped forward deliberately, and bumped into Harry.</p>

    <p>Harry staggered back a few feet and, before he could stop himself, straightened up icily.</p>

    <p>‘Wrong,’ said Professor Quirrell, ‘wrong, wrong, wrong.’</p>

    <p>‘You bumped into me, Potter,’ Derrick said. ‘Apologize.’</p>

    <p>‘I’m sorry!’</p>

    <p>‘You don’t <em>sound</em> sorry,’ said Derrick.</p>

    <p>Harry’s eyes widened in indignation, he <em>had</em> managed to make that sound pleading –</p>

    <p>Derrick pushed him, hard, and Harry fell to the mat on his hands and knees.</p>

    <p>The blue fabric seemed to waver in Harry’s vision, not far away.</p>

    <p>He was beginning to doubt Professor Quirrell’s real motives in teaching this so-called <em>lesson.</em></p>

    <p>A foot rested on Harry’s buttocks and a moment later Harry was pushed hard to the side, sending him sprawling on his back.</p>

    <p>Derrick laughed. ‘This is <em>fun,</em>’ he said.</p>

    <p>All he had to do was say it was over. And report the whole thing to the Headmaster’s office. That would be the end of this <i>Defence Professor</i> and his ill-fated stay at Hogwarts and … Professor McGonagall would be angry about that, but …</p>

    <p>(An image of Professor McGonagall’s face flashed before his eyes, she didn’t look angry, just sad –)</p>

    <p>‘Now tell him that he’s better than you, Potter,’ said Professor Quirrell’s voice.</p>

    <p>‘You’re, better, than, me.’</p>

    <p>Harry started to raise himself and Derrick put a foot on his chest and shoved him back down to the mat.</p>

    <p>The world was becoming transparent as crystal. Lines of action and their consequences stretched out before him in utter clarity. The fool wouldn’t be expecting him to strike back, a quick hit in the groin would stun him long enough for –</p>

    <p>‘Try again,’ said Professor Quirrell and with a sudden sharp motion Harry rolled and sprang to his feet and whirled on where stood his real enemy, the Defence Professor –</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell said, ‘You have no patience.’</p>

    <p>Harry faltered. His mind, well-honed in pessimism, drew a picture of a wizened old man with blood pouring from his mouth after Harry had ripped his tongue out –</p>

    <p>A moment later, Derrick pushed Harry to the mat again and then sat down on him, sending Harry’s breath whooshing out.</p>

    <p>‘Stop!’ Harry screamed. ‘Please stop!’</p>

    <p>‘Better,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘That even sounded sincere.’</p>

    <p>It <em>had</em> been. That was the horrible thing, the sickening thing, it <em>had</em> been sincere. Harry was panting rapidly, fear and cold anger both flushing through him –</p>

    <p>‘Lose,’ said Professor Quirrell.</p>

    <p>‘I, lose,’ Harry forced out.</p>

    <p>‘I like it,’ Derrick said from on top of him. ‘Lose some more.’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Hands shoved Harry, sending him stumbling across the circle of older Slytherins to another set of hands that shoved him again. Harry had long since passed the point of trying not to cry, and was now just trying not to fall down.</p>

    <p>‘What are you, Potter?’ said Derrick.</p>

    <p>‘A, l-loser, I lose, I give up, you win, you’re b-better, than me, please stop&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Harry tripped over a foot and went crashing to the ground, hands not quite able to catch himself. He was dazed for a moment, then began struggling to his feet again –</p>

    <p><em>‘Enough!’</em> said Professor Quirrell’s voice, sounding sharp enough to cut iron. ‘Step away from Mr&#160;Potter!’</p>

    <p>Harry saw the surprised looks on their faces. The chill in his blood, which had been flowing and ebbing, smiled in cold satisfaction.</p>

    <p>Then Harry collapsed to the mat.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell talked. There were gasps from the older Slytherins.</p>

    <p>‘And I believe the scion of Malfoy has something he wants to explain to you as well,’ finished Professor Quirrell.</p>

    <p>Draco’s voice started talking. His voice sounded almost as sharp as professor Quirrell’s, it had acquired the same cadence Draco had used to imitate his father, and it was saying things like <i>could have put Slytherin House in jeopardy</i> and <i>who knows how many allies in this school alone</i> and <i>total lack of awareness, never mind cunning</i> and <i>dull thugs, useful for nothing but lackeys</i> and something in Harry’s hindbrain, despite everything he knew, was designating Draco as an ally.</p>

    <p>Harry ached all over, was probably bruised, his body felt cold, his mind utterly exhausted. He tried to think of Fawkes’s song, but without the phoenix present he couldn’t remember the melody and when he tried to imagine it he couldn’t seem to think of anything except a bird chirping.</p>

    <p>Then Draco stopped talking and Professor Quirrell told the older Slytherins they were dismissed, and Harry opened his eyes and struggled to sit up, ‘Wait,’ Harry said, forcing the words out, ‘there’s something, I want, to say, to them&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Wait on Mr&#160;Potter,’ Professor Quirrell said coldly to the departing Slytherins.</p>

    <p>Harry swayed to his feet. He was careful not to look in the direction of his classmates. He didn’t want to see how they were looking at him now. He didn’t want to see their pity.</p>

    <p>So instead Harry looked at the older Slytherins, who still seemed to be in a state of shock. They stared back at him. Dread was on their faces.</p>

    <p>His dark side, when it was in control, had held to the imagination of this moment, and went on pretending to lose.</p>

    <p>Harry said, ‘No one will&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Stop,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘If that’s what I think it is, please wait until after they’re gone. They’ll hear about it later. We all have our lessons to learn, Mr&#160;Potter.’</p>

    <p>‘All right,’ Harry said.</p>

    <p>‘You. Go.’</p>

    <p>The older Slytherins fled and the door closed behind them.</p>

    <p>‘No one’s to take any revenge on them,’ Harry said hoarsely. ‘That’s a request to anyone who considers themselves my friend. I had my lesson to learn, they helped me learn it, they had their lesson to learn too, it’s over. If you tell this story, make sure you tell that part too.’</p>

    <p>Harry turned to look at Professor Quirrell.</p>

    <p>‘You lost,’ said Professor Quirrell, his voice gentle for the first time. It sounded strange coming from the professor, like his voice shouldn’t even be able to do that.</p>

    <p>Harry <em>had</em> lost. There had been moments when the cold anger had faded entirely, replaced by fear, and during those moments he’d begged the older Slytherins and he’d meant it …</p>

    <p>‘And are you yet alive?’ said Professor Quirrell, still with that strange gentleness.</p>

    <p>Harry managed to nod.</p>

    <p>‘Not all losing is like this,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘There are compromises and negotiated surrenders. There are other ways to placate bullies. There is a whole art form to manipulating others by letting them be dominant over you. But first, losing must be <em>thinkable</em>. Will you remember how you lost?’</p>

    <p>‘Yes.’</p>

    <p>‘Will you be able to lose?’</p>

    <p>‘I … think so …’</p>

    <p>‘I think so too.’ Professor Quirrell bowed so low that his thin hair almost touched the floor. ‘Congratulations, Harry Potter, you win.’</p>

    <p>There was no single source, no first mover, the applause started all at once like a massive thunderclap.</p>

    <p>Harry’s couldn’t keep the shock from his face. He risked a glance at his classmates, and he saw their faces showing not pity but awe. The applause was coming from Ravenclaw and Gryffindor and Hufflepuff and even Slytherin, probably because Draco Malfoy was applauding too. Some students were standing up from their chairs and half of Gryffindor was standing on their desks.</p>

    <p>So Harry stood there, swaying, letting their respect wash over him, feeling stronger, and maybe even a little healed.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell waited for the applause to die away. It took quite a while.</p>

    <p>‘Surprised, Mr&#160;Potter?’ Professor Quirrell said. His voice sounded amused. ‘You have just found out that the real world does not <em>always</em> work like your worst nightmares. Yes, if you had been some poor anonymous boy being abused, then they would probably have respected you less afterwards, pitied you even as they comforted you from their loftier perches. That <em>is</em> human nature, I’m afraid. But <em>you</em> they already know for a figure of power. And they saw you confront your fear and keep confronting it, even though you could have walked away at any time. Did you think less of <em>me</em> when I told you that I had deliberately endured being spat upon?’</p>

    <p>Harry felt a burning sensation in his throat and frantically clamped down. He didn’t trust this miraculous respect enough to start crying again in front of it.</p>

    <p>‘Your <em>extraordinary</em> achievement in my class deserves an extraordinary reward, Harry Potter. Please accept it with my compliments on behalf of my House, and remember from this day forward that not all Slytherins are alike. There are Slytherins, and then there are Slytherins.’ Professor Quirrell was smiling quite broadly as he said this. ‘Fifty-one points to Ravenclaw.’</p>

    <p>There was a shocked pause and then pandemonium broke out among the Ravenclaw students, howling and whistling and cheering.</p>

    <p>(And in the same moment Harry felt something <em>wrong</em> about that, Professor McGonagall had been right, there <em>should</em> have been consequences, there should have been a cost and a price to be paid, you couldn’t just put everything back the way it was like that –)</p>

    <p>But Harry saw the elated faces in Ravenclaw and knew he couldn’t possibly say no.</p>

    <p>His brain made a suggestion. It was a good suggestion. Harry could not even believe his brain was still keeping him upright, let alone producing good suggestions.</p>

    <p>‘Professor Quirrell,’ Harry said, as clearly as he could through his burning throat. ‘You are everything a member of your House should be, and I think you must be just what Salazar Slytherin had in mind when he helped found Hogwarts. I thank you and your House,’ Draco was very slightly nodding and subtly turning his finger, <i>keep going</i>, ‘and I think this calls for three cheers for Slytherin. With me, everyone?’ Harry paused. <em>‘Huzzah!’</em> Only a few people managed to join in on the first try. <em>‘Huzzah!’</em> This time most of Ravenclaw was in on it. <em>‘Huzzah!’</em> That was almost all of Ravenclaw, a scattering of Hufflepuffs and around a quarter of Gryffindor.</p>

    <p>Draco’s hand moved into a small, quick, thumbs-up gesture.</p>

    <p>Most of the Slytherins had expressions of sheer shock. A few were staring at Professor Quirrell in wonder. Blaise Zabini was looking at Harry with a calculating, intrigued expression.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell bowed. ‘Thank <em>you</em>, Harry Potter,’ he said, still with that broad smile. He turned to the class. ‘Now, believe it or not, we still have half an hour left in this session, and that is enough to introduce the Simple Shield. Mr&#160;Potter, of course, is going off and taking a well-earned rest.’</p>

    <p>‘I can&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Idiot,’ Professor Quirrell said fondly. The class was already laughing. ‘Your classmates can teach you afterwards, or I’ll tutor you privately if that’s what it takes. But <i>right now</i>, you’re going through the third door from the left in the back of the stage, where you will find a bed, an assortment of exceptionally tasty snacks, and some extremely light reading from the Hogwarts library. You may not take anything else with you, particularly not your textbooks. Now go.’</p>

    <p>Harry went.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>