<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
<div class="calibre1">
    <p>Harry stared down at his hands, shutting out the yammering and tried to think, think, <em>think –</em></p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>Susan Bones and a red-headed boy with a battered-looking wand both shoved their way through the crowd to Harry at the same time.</p>

    <p>‘We’ve got to let the Professors know somehow&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘We’ve got to go find her&#160;–’</p>

    <p><i>‘Find her?’</i> Susan snapped, rounding on the other boy. ‘How’ll we do <em>that</em>, Captain Weasley?’</p>

    <p>‘We’ll go off and <em>look</em> for her!’ Ron Weasley snapped back.</p>

    <p>‘Are you nuts? There’s already Professors searching the hallways, what makes you think we’ve got any better chance than them of running across General Granger? Only <em>we’ll</em> get eaten by the troll! And then expelled!’</p>

    <p>It was odd, how sometimes hearing bad ideas made the right idea obvious by contrast.</p>

    <p><i>‘All right everyone! Listen up!’</i></p>

    <p>People turned to look.</p>

    <p><i class="shout">‘Quiet! everyone! shut up!’</i></p>

    <p>Harry’s throat ached after that, but he had everyone’s attention.</p>

    <p>‘I have a broomstick,’ Harry said as loudly as he could manage with his throat still hurting. He’d remembered Azkaban, and the broomstick which had only sat two, when he’d requested one that could carry three. ‘It’s a 3-seater. I need one seventh-year from the armies to come with me. We’re going to fly through the hallways as fast as possible looking for Hermione Granger, pick her up, and come back immediately. Who’s with me?’</p>

    <p>The Great Hall became entirely silent, then.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Students glanced at each other uneasily. The younger students looked expectantly at the older students, while they in turn turned to look at the students who were guarding the perimeter. Most of those were staring straight ahead, pointing their wands just in case the troll picked that moment to burst through a wall.</p>

    <p>No one moved.</p>

    <p>No one spoke.</p>

    <p>Harry Potter spoke again. ‘We’re not going to <em>fight</em> the troll. If we see it we’ll just fly away and there’s no way it’ll be able to keep up with us on a broomstick. I’ll take responsibility for squaring it with the administration. <em>Please.</em>’</p>

    <p>People went on looking at other people.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Harry stared at the silent crowd, the dozen seventh-years looking sternly outward, feeling the coldness coming over him. Somewhere in the back of his mind, Professor Quirrell was laughing scornfully and mocking the idea that ordinary fools would ever do something useful of their own will, without a wand pointed at their heads …</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>The standard remedy for bystander apathy was to focus on a single individual. ‘All right,’ Harry said, trying to keep the commanding voice of the Boy-Who-Lived who didn’t doubt obedience. ‘Miss&#160;Morgan, come with me, now. We’ve got no time to waste.’</p>

    <p>The witch he’d named turned from where she’d been staring steadily out at the perimeter, her expression aghast for the one second before her face closed up.</p>

    <p>‘The Deputy Headmistress ordered us all to stay <em>here</em>, Mr&#160;Potter.’</p>

    <p>It took an effort for Harry to unclench his teeth. ‘Professor Quirrell didn’t say that and neither did you. Professor McGonagall isn’t a tactician, she didn’t think to check if we had missing students and <em>she</em> thought it was a good idea to start marching students through the hallways. But Professor McGonagall <em>understands</em> after her mistakes are pointed out to her, you saw how she listened to you and Professor Quirrell, and I’m certain that she wouldn’t want us to just ignore the fact that Hermione Granger is <i>out there, alone –</i>’</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>‘I’d expect the Professor to say she’d not wish any more students roaming the halls. The Professor said if anyone left for any reason, they’d be expelled. Maybe <em>you</em> don’t need to worry because you’re the Boy-Who-Lived, but the rest of us <em>do!</em>’</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>Somewhere in the back of his mind, Professor Quirrell was just laughing at him. Expecting some <em>normal</em> person to act without perfect strategic clarity, without a clear focus of responsibility on them personally, when they had a <i>good excuse to do nothing …</i> ‘A student’s life is at stake,’ Harry said in a level voice. ‘She could be fighting the troll right now. Out of curiosity, does that mean anything to you at all?’</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>Miss&#160;Morgan’s face twisted. ‘You – you’re the Boy-Who-Lived! Just go off by yourself and snap your fingers, if you want to help her!’</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>Harry was hardly even aware of what he was saying. ‘That’s just cleverness and bluffing, I don’t have any power like that in real life, a young girl needs your help <i>now are you a Gryffindor or not?</i>’</p>

    <p>‘Why are you saying any of this to <em>me?</em>’ cried Miss&#160;Morgan. ‘I wasn’t left in charge here! Mr&#160;Hagrid was!’</p>

    <p>There was an awkward pause that suffused the whole room.</p>

    <p>Harry spun to look up at the huge half-giant towering over the crowd of students, as all other heads also turned toward him as one.</p>

    <p>‘Mr&#160;Hagrid,’ Harry said, trying to keep his voice commanding. ‘You need to authorize this expedition and you need to do it now.’</p>

    <p>Rubeus Hagrid looked conflicted, though that was hard to judge with his vast head so surrounded by his unshorn beard and locks; only his eyes looked alive, embedded in all that hair. ‘Eh …’ said the half-giant. ‘I was tol’ to keep yeh all safe&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Great, now can we also keep Hermione Granger safe? You know, the student framed for <i>a murder she did not commit</i> who needs <i>someone to help her?</i>’</p>

    <p>The half-giant startled as Harry spoke the words.</p>

    <p>Harry stared at the enormous man, desperately willing him to pick up on the hint, hoping the words hadn’t given it away to anyone else – he couldn’t be just muscle, surely James and Lily had been friends with this man out of more than pity –</p>

    <p>‘Framed?’ called out an anonymous voice, from somewhere over near where the Slytherins gathered. ‘Ha, are you still on that? It’d serve her right if she did get eaten.’</p>

    <p>There was some laughter, even as cries of indignation came from elsewhere.</p>

    <p>The half-giant’s face firmed up. ‘Yeh stay here, lad,’ Mr&#160;Hagrid said in a booming tone that was probably meant to be gentle. ‘I’ll go and look fer her meself. Truth is, trolls can be a mite tricky – yeh’ve got to catch ’em by an ankle and dangle ’em just right, or they’ll rip yeh clean in half&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Can you ride a broomstick, Mr&#160;Hagrid?’</p>

    <p>‘Eh&#160;–’ Rubeus Hagrid frowned. ‘No.’</p>

    <p>‘Then you can’t search fast enough. <i>Sixth-years! Calling all sixth-years! Are there any sixth-years here who aren’t worthless cowards?</i>’</p>

    <p>Silence.</p>

    <p><i>‘<i>Fifth years?</i> Mr&#160;Hagrid, tell them they’re authorized to go with me and keep me safe! <i>I’m trying to be sensible, damn it!’</i></i></p>

    <p>The half-giant wrung his hands with an agonized expression. ‘Eh – I&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Something snapped inside Harry and he started to stride directly toward the doors to the Great Hall, pushing aside anyone who didn’t get out of his way as though they were doughy statues. (He didn’t run, because running was an invitation for somebody to stop you.) Somewhere in his mind he was moving through an empty room filled with mechanical puppets by whose meaningless lip-moving noises he’d been <em>distracted</em> –</p>

    <p>A huge figure interposed itself in his way.</p>

    <p>Harry looked up.</p>

    <p>‘I can’t let yeh do that, Harry, not yeh of all people. There’s strange things afoot in this castle, and someone might be after Hermione – or they might be after <em>yeh.</em>’ Rubeus Hagrid’s voice was regretful but firm, and his gigantic hands lay at his side like forklifts. ‘I can’t let yeh go out there, Harry Potter.’</p>

    <p><em>‘Stupefy!’</em></p>

    <p>The red bolt crashed into the side of Hagrid’s head and made the huge man startle. His head snapped around faster than anything that large should’ve moved, and bellowed, <i>‘What do yeh think yeh’re doing!’</i> at the young form of Susan Bones.</p>

    <p><i>‘Sorry!’</i> she screamed. <i>‘Incendium! Glisseo!’</i></p>

    <p>The huge man’s hands, now slapping at the fire in his beard, didn’t quite manage to catch himself as he crashed to the floor, but it didn’t matter by then because Harry was past him and –</p>

    <p>Neville Longbottom stepped in front of him, looking desperate but determined, the Hufflepuff boy’s wand already level in his hand.</p>

    <p>Harry’s hand went for his wand in a sheer reflex action, he barely managed to check himself before Neville could fire on him, staring at his Lieutenant as though the world had gone mad.</p>

    <p>‘Harry!’ Neville burst out. ‘Harry, Mr&#160;Hagrid’s right, you <em>can’t</em>, this could all be a trap, they could be after <em>you –</em>’</p>

    <p>All of Neville’s muscles went rigid and he toppled to the ground, stiff as a board.</p>

    <p>A pale-looking Ron Weasley stepped out from behind Neville, his own wand level, and said, ‘Go.’</p>

    <p><i>‘Ron, you madman, what are you doing&#160;–’</i> came a voice distantly identifiable as Miss&#160;Clearwater’s boyfriend, but Harry was already dashing for the door without looking back, even as Ron’s voice and Susan’s voice rose again in incantation. There was a huge indignant bellow, and unknown voices began to yell.</p>

    <p>Then Harry was through, his hand reaching into his pouch and his voice was saying <em>‘broomstick’</em>, as behind him the great doors began to swing shut again.</p>

    <p>Harry continued running through the Entrance Hall even as the long three-person broomstick and its sets of stirrups began to protrude from the pouch, repeating a number of swearwords in his head and thinking <i>this is what happens when you try to be sensible</i> with the part of his mind that wasn’t trying to figure out a search pattern to cover places where Hermione might be. The Library was on the third floor and practically on the other side of the castle … Harry had almost reached the great marble staircase by the time the broomstick was in his hand and <em>‘Up!’</em> he was in the air and accelerating up toward the second floor –</p>

    <p><em>‘Gah!’</em> Harry screamed, and barely managed to spin his broom in the air so that he didn’t impale one of the human figures lurking at the top of the stairs. There was a ghastly moment of trying not to fall off the broom, perform the twists that would keep him in the stirrups, despite being really close to the ground and having almost no room to manoeuvre and then –</p>

    <p><i>‘Fred? George?’</i></p>

    <p>‘We can’t figure out how to find her!’ one of the Weasley twins blurted, hands twisting in distress. ‘We sneaked out because we thought we could find Miss&#160;Granger – there <em>has</em> to be a quick way to find anyone inside the Hogwarts castle, we’re both sure of it – but we can’t figure out what it is!’</p>

    <p>Harry stared at both of them, from where he was hanging upside down from the broomstick where his desperate manoeuvre had brought him, and entirely by reflex his mouth said, ‘Well, <em>why</em> were you so sure you could find her?’</p>

    <p>‘We <i>don’t know!</i>’ cried the other Weasley twin.</p>

    <p>‘Have you been able to find people inside Hogwarts before?’</p>

    <p>‘<em>Yes!</em> We&#160;–’ and the Weasley twin who was speaking stopped abruptly, both redheads staring off into the distance with a blank expression.</p>

    <p>There was a thundering crash, as of two huge doors being shoved open by someone very, very strong.</p>

    <p>Harry spun around in the air to present the two open stirrup-positions on the broomstick to the Weasley twins, he didn’t say anything, there was no reason for them to give away their positions if they didn’t have to. Time seemed to move too slowly as the Weasley twins scrambled into the stirrups, Harry’s heart beating hard despite his mental calculation that Mr&#160;Hagrid, running, shouldn’t reach even the foot of the stairway in time. Then the three of them were accelerating <em>hard</em> and away toward the nearest corridor, the stone floor beneath them blurring and the walls seeming to make an audible whooshing sound (though that was just the wind in their ears) as they went past; Harry remembered that he was riding a longer three-person broomstick barely in time to <i>slow down</i> for the next turn.</p>

    <p>And now all the broomstick seats were occupied, but if they actually found Hermione then – Harry could put on the Cloak of Invisibility, that should hide him from the troll, and that would free up a seat for Hermione –</p>

    <p>Harry ducked hard before a sudden archway took his head off.</p>

    <p>‘We found Jesse!’ the Weasley twin seated behind Harry blurted. ‘I know we did! That time we needed to tell him that Filch was hunting for him!’</p>

    <p>‘How?’ Harry said, most of his brain engaged in not dying in a horrible air accident. He should have slowed down for safety, but there was a tension rising in him, a sourceless dread. He <em>couldn’t</em> slow down, something terrible would happen if he slowed down …</p>

    <p>‘We&#160;–’ said the Weasley twin seated lower down. ‘We can’t remember!’</p>

    <p>Another sharp turn taken at, Harry estimated, roughly 0.3% of the speed of light, and they were going through a twisty curving corridor that Harry always took to get from the Great Hall to the library only it <i>wasn’t</i> the shortest way if you were <i>on a broomstick,</i> he should’ve taken the long straight West Corridor instead –</p>

    <p>The part of his brain that wasn’t steering caught up with reality.</p>

    <p>‘Someone’s been tampering with your minds!’ Harry yelled, as he weaved through the curving corridor so fast that the tail-end Weasley sometimes lightly smacked into the wall as the length of the broomstick conflicted with Harry’s maladapted air skills.</p>

    <p><em>‘What?’</em> cried Fred or George.</p>

    <p>‘Whoever got to Hermione messed with your minds too!’ It could be an Obliviation, it could be a False Memory that hadn’t been planted right, but right now Harry couldn’t <em>think –</em></p>

    <p>The broomstick turned and shot upward along a spiral staircase, all three of them flattened themselves against the broomstick so they could make in through the gap in the ceiling that opened onto the third floor, and then they were in front of the library, the broomstick slowing to a halt with a shriek despite the lack of anything it could be friction-braking against. Harry shot the Weasley twins a quick glance to <i>stay put</i>, as he clambered off the broomstick to shove open the doors of the library, controlling his breathing as he shoved his head inside.</p>

    <p>Hermione Granger wasn’t there.</p>

    <p>Madam Pince, who was eating a sandwich at her desk, looked up with a sudden glare. ‘Library’s closed!’</p>

    <p>‘Have you seen Hermione Granger?’ Harry said.</p>

    <p>‘I said the library’s <em>closed,</em> boy! Lunch hours!’</p>

    <p>‘This is extremely important. Have you seen Hermione Granger or do you have any idea where she might be?’</p>

    <p>‘No, now be off!’</p>

    <p>‘Do you have any fast way of contacting Professor McGonagall in an emergency?’</p>

    <p>‘Eh?’ said the librarian, startled. She rose up from behind her desk. ‘What is&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Yes or no. Please answer immediately.’</p>

    <p>‘Ah – there’s the Floo&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘She’s not in her office,’ Harry said. ‘Do you have any other way of reaching her. Yes or no.’</p>

    <p>‘Young man, I insist that you&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Harry’s brain flagged this as <i>I’m talking to NPCs again</i> and he spun on his heel and dashed back for the broomstick.</p>

    <p>‘Stop!’ cried Madam Pince, bursting too late from the doors as Harry and the Weasley twins shot off again, out of the librarian’s sight. The pressure in Harry’s mind still rising, like a physical hand squeezing his chest, <i>he had to find Hermione</i> and he had no other notion of where she could be, unless it was the witches’ dorms in the Ravenclaw tower and that he couldn’t enter. Searching all of Hogwarts bordered on a mathematical impossibility, there probably was no continuous flight path that entered all the rooms at least once – <em>why</em> hadn’t he thought to demand for Hermione and Neville and him to be given a set of those neat little mirrors the Aurors used to communicate –</p>

    <p>The realization that he was being <em>stupid</em> hit Harry like a blow to the stomach. He didn’t need mirrors to send a message, he hadn’t needed mirrors since January. Harry slowed the broomstick to a halt in mid-air of a hallway, his wand already coming into his hand, the driving will to <i>protect Hermione Granger</i> rising to the front of his mind like a sun of silver fire and flowing down his arm as he cried</p>

    <p><i class="shout">‘Expecto Patronum!’</i></p>

    <p>and the blazing white humanoid burst into existence like a nova, the Weasley twins’ voices crying aloud in shock.</p>

    <p>‘Tell Hermione Granger – that there’s a troll loose in Hogwarts – it could be hunting for her – she needs to get into direct sunlight, now!’</p>

    <p>The silver figure turned as though it was departing, and then vanished.</p>

    <p>‘Merlin’s underpants,’ breathed Fred or George.</p>

    <p>The silver outline blasted back into the world, and said in the strange version of Harry’s own voice, ‘Hermione Granger says,’ the blazing figure’s voice became higher-pitched, <i class="shout">‘Ahhhhhhhhh!’</i></p>

    <p>Time seemed to fracture, like everything was moving very quickly and slowly at the same time. A desperate impulse to accelerate the broomstick, fly at its maximum speed, only Harry didn’t <i>know where</i> –</p>

    <p>‘If you know where she is,’ Harry shouted to the blazing humanoid figure, staring into it as though it were a sun, ‘then <i>take me to her!</i>’</p>

    <p>The silver blaze moved and Harry accelerated after it, the Weasley twins giving out high-pitched shrieks behind him as he fired through the air like a cannonball, moving faster than sanity, he didn’t focus on the walls whizzing past him or how fast he was moving, just followed the silver light through corridors and flying up staircases and blitzing through doors that Fred or George cried desperate incantations to open and it was <i>all still taking too much time,</i> somewhere deep inside Harry felt like he was sinking through molasses as windows and portraits shot past.</p>

    <p>The broomstick screamed through a final turn that whacked one of the Weasley twins against the wall not quite as hard as a Bludger would hit, and then they followed the brilliant Patronus through an open space in the ceilings, blasting up and upwards, rising past one floor and then another in less than a breath.</p>

    <p>His Patronus slowed to a halt (Harry braking hard in response) just as they reached the level of a wide-open floor space that that spread out until it escaped the ceiling and turned into an outdoor terrace, a spread of tiled marble open to the air and sky –</p>

    <p>Cool blue fires clung to the floor in small masses, surrounding a blazing pool that seemed to burn with a deadlier, hotter blue.</p>

    <p>In one narrow circle the marble tiles were scorched and shattered by some explosive spell that only the most prodigious of first-year witches could have cast, with the last of her strength.</p>

    <p>On the terrace, <i>still moving</i> beneath the open sunlight, stood a great lumpy creature of dull granite-grey. Body like a boulder with small bald head perched on top like a stone, short legs thick as tree trunks with flat, horny feet. One hand held a tremendous stone club as long and as wide as an adult human, and the other hand held</p>

    <p>The Weasley twins screamed.</p>

    <p>Harry’s Patronus shattered.</p>

    <p>The troll snorted and spun around to face them, dropping into the red pool that had spread out beneath its feet, raising its club high.</p>

    <p>Then a Weasley cried an incantation and the club was torn from the troll’s hand, smashed into its face so hard it drove the troll back for one of its steps, a blow that might have killed a Muggle. The troll gave a bellow of anger, its nose squashed and blood-spattered, and then the nose straightened once more, regenerated. The troll grabbed with both hands for the club, which shot away through the air but only barely dodged the grab.</p>

    <p>‘Lead it away, keep it off me,’ said a voice.</p>

    <p>The levitated club moved backwards from the troll, from the terrace onto the wide-open floor beneath the ceiling; and the troll made a great prodigious leap that almost brought the club into its hands. Then the troll made another great leap as the club moved to one side; and the broomstick moved forwards and Harry jumped off and ran towards where Hermione Granger was lying in a pool of her own blood with her legs eaten away to the upper thighs.</p>

    <p>Harry’s hands tore open the healer’s kit from his pouch, grabbed one of the self-tightening tourniquets, wrapped them around one ragged tooth-marked stump, his hands briefly slipping in the blood, they didn’t tremble, there wasn’t any allowance for his hands to tremble. As the tourniquet formed a complete loop it tightened hard and more blood came out, but then the bleeding stopped on that thigh-stump, and Harry turned to the other. Part of his mind was screaming, screaming, screaming and even the part of him picking up the other self-tightening tourniquet heard it, but that also wasn’t allowed.</p>

    <p>The two Weasley twins were shouting spells, one after another in rapid-fire casting that would have had Harry unconscious in sixty seconds, sometimes the twins shouted two spells simultaneously in perfect coordination, but most of the spells were disrupting in harmless showers of sparks against the troll’s skin. As the other tourniquet tightened itself in another pulse of blood, Harry looked up at a <i>‘Diffindo!’</i> / <i>‘Reducto!’</i> that made the troll’s vulnerable eyes explode in twin showers of vitreous humour, but the troll only bellowed once more, its eyes already reforming.</p>

    <p><i>‘Fire and acid!’</i> Harry shouted. <i>‘Use fire or acid!’</i></p>

    <p><i>‘Fuego!’</i> / <i>‘Incendio!’</i> Harry heard, but he wasn’t looking, he was reaching for the syringe of glowing orange liquid that was the oxygenating potion, pushing it into Hermione’s neck at what Harry hoped was the carotid artery, to keep her brain alive even if her lungs or heart stopped, so long as her brain stayed intact everything else could be fixed, it had to be possible for magic to fix it, it had to be possible for magic to fix it, it had to be possible for magic to fix it, and Harry pushed the plunger of the syringe all the way down, creating a faint glow beneath the pale skin of her neck. Harry then pushed down on her chest, where her heart should be, hard compressions that he hoped was moving the oxygenated blood around to where it could reach her brain, even if her heart might have stopped beating, he hadn’t actually thought to check her pulse.</p>

    <p>Then Harry stared at the other things in his medical kit, his mind going blank as he tried to figure out what else of what was there, if anything, he could use. The screaming in that distant corner of his mind was getting louder, much louder, now that his hands had stopped their frantic motions. He was suddenly aware of the liquid sensation where blood had soaked through his robes and the knees of his trousers.</p>

    <p>From behind Harry came the sound of another bellow from the troll, and he heard one of the Weasley twins shout <i>‘Deligitor prodeas!’</i> and then, <i>‘<span class="shout">HELP!</span> Do something!’</i></p>

    <p>Harry twisted his head back to look, and saw that one of the Weasley twins was somehow now wearing the Sorting Hat on his head, facing off against the troll which held the huge stone club in both its hands, looking somewhat scorched now and with one or two smoking scars across its arms, but still intact.</p>

    <p>And then the voice of the Hat bellowed in a voice so loud it seemed to shake the walls,</p>

    <p><i>‘GRYFFINDOR!’</i></p>

    <p>A pulse of power burned the air, magic almost tangible even to Harry’s undeveloped senses; the troll jumped back a pace with a snort of surprise. Fred or George, with a strange look on his face, swept the Hat off his head with a motion smooth as a magician’s trick, and reached in with one hand and drew forth a hilt whose pommel was a glowing ruby, followed by a wide crossguard of gleaming white metal, and a blade as long as a tall child. As the sword was revealed the air seemed to fill with a silent scream of fury.</p>

    <p>Upon the blade was written in golden script, <i>nihil supernum.</i></p>

    <p>Then the Weasley twin raised the sword aloft as though the huge blade weighed nothing, and screamed and charged.</p>

    <p>Harry’s lips opened to say something, some long sentence like, <i>No, stop, you have no idea how to use a sword</i> but not even a single syllable left his lips before the sword sliced off the troll’s right arm through the elbow, cutting through skin and flesh and bone like jelly; just as the already-swinging arc of the stone club smashed into the charging Weasley twin and sent him flying through the air above the marble floor, over the gap out of which they’d risen on the broomstick, until that Weasley hit the wall on the opposite side and then collapsed into an unmoving heap.</p>

    <p>The bright sword vanished down into the opening in the floor, clattering distantly as it dropped.</p>

    <p><i>‘Fred!’</i> screamed George Weasley, and then <i class="shout">‘Ventus!’</i></p>

    <p>An invisible blow caught the troll and hurled it sideways through the air.</p>

    <p><i class="shout">‘Ventus!’</i></p>

    <p>The troll was hit again, blown to the edge of the floor and the gap leading downwards.</p>

    <p><i class="shout">‘Ventus!’</i></p>

    <p>But the troll had reached down and grabbed at the floor, its remaining hand crunching through marble to gain a firm hold. The third blow sent the troll’s body over the gap; but the hand remained at the edge. And then the troll was pulling itself back up single-handedly, roaring.</p>

    <p>George Weasley staggered, almost falling, his hand dropping to his side. ‘Harry&#160;–’ the Weasley twin said in a strained voice, ‘Run&#160;–’</p>

    <p>The remaining Weasley twin took a step sideways, slumped against the wall, and slid to the ground.</p>

    <p>Time was fractured in Harry’s mind, the world around him seemed to move slowly, distorted, or perhaps it was his own mind twisting and folding. He should have been moving, doing something, but a strange paralysis seemed to be stopping all his muscles, all his motions. Without any time for words, thoughts came in flashes of concepts: that if Harry ran away the troll would eat the Weasley twins as well as Hermione, that if Bludgers didn’t kill wizards then Fred should still be alive, that the Weasley twins were more powerful spell-casters than him and they hadn’t been able to hold back the troll, there was no time to Transfigure anything he didn’t already possess, the troll seemed too agile to be lured over the edge of the terrace to fall off the sides of the Hogwarts castle, someone had enchanted the troll against sunlight before using it as a murder weapon and might also have strengthened it in other ways. And then a mental image of Hermione running from the troll, running for sunlight, finally reaching the bright terrace with the troll hot on her heels, only to find that someone else had thought of that possibility, too.</p>

    <p>The screaming horror in his mind was drowned out by another emotion.</p>

    <p>Harry stood up.</p>

    <p>On the other side of the room, the enemy had also risen, the unregenerating stump of one sword-cut arm still bloody.</p>

    <p class="thought">intent to kill</p>

    <p>The troll grasped its fallen club in its remaining hand, and gave a huge bellow, smashing the club into the floor and sending marble chips flying.</p>

    <p class="thought">think purely of killing</p>

    <p>The troll began to lumber towards where George had fallen, a thin string of drool trailing from the side of its lips.</p>

    <p class="thought">grasp at any means to do so</p>

    <p>Harry took five strides forward, and the enemy gave another bellow and turned away from George, its eyes focusing squarely on him.</p>

    <p class="thought">censors off, do not flinch</p>

    <p>The third most perfect killing machine in nature bounded towards him in leaping steps.</p>

    <p class="thought shout">kill</p>

    <p>Harry’s left hand already held the Transfigured diamond from his ring, his right hand already held his wand.</p>

    <p><i>‘Wingardium Leviosa.’</i></p>

    <p>Harry’s wand directed the tiny jewel into the troll’s mouth.</p>

    <p><i>‘Finite Incantatem.’</i></p>

    <p>The troll’s head blew off its spine as the rock expanded back into its old form, and Harry stepped aside as the Enemy’s body crashed where he’d been standing.</p>

    <p>The enemy’s head was already beginning to regenerate, the ragged stump of the jaw and spine smoothing over, the mouth completing itself and replacing its teeth.</p>

    <p>Harry bent down and picked up the troll’s head by its left ear. His wand jammed through the troll’s left eye, plunging through the jelly-like material and passing through the wide socket in the bone. Harry visualized a one-millimetre-wide cross-section through the enemy’s brain, and Transfigured it into sulphuric acid.</p>

    <p>The enemy stopped regenerating.</p>

    <p>Harry threw the corpse over the edge of the terrace and turned back to Hermione.</p>

    <p>Her eyes were moving, and focused on him.</p>

    <p>Harry crouched beside her, ignoring the blood soaking more of his already-soaked robes. <i>You’ll be all right,</i> his brain formed the sentence, but his lips wouldn’t move. <i>You’ll be all right, we’ll find some magic to fix all this, put you back to normal, just hold on, don’t –</i></p>

    <p>Hermione’s lips were moving, just a tiny bit but they were moving.</p>

    <p>‘your … fault …’</p>

    <p>Time froze. Harry should have told her not to talk, to save her breath, only he couldn’t unblock his lips.</p>

    <p>Hermione drew in another breath, and her lips whispered, ‘Not your fault.’</p>

    <p>Then she exhaled, and closed her eyes.</p>

    <p>Harry stared at her with his mouth half-open, his breath caught in his throat.</p>

    <p>‘Don’t do this,’ said his voice. He’d only been two minutes late.</p>

    <p>Hermione suddenly convulsed, her arms twitching into the air as though reaching up for something, and her eyes flew open again. There was a burst of <em>something</em> that was magic and also more, a shout louder than an earthquake and containing a thousand books, a thousand libraries, all spoken in a single cry that was Hermione; too vast to be understood, except that Harry suddenly knew that Hermione had whited out the pain, and was glad not to be dying alone. For a moment it seemed like the outpouring of magic might hold, take root in the castle’s stone; but then the outpouring ended and the magic faded, her body stopped moving and all motion halted as Hermione Jean Granger ceased to exist –</p>

    <p>No.</p>

    <p>Harry stood up from the body, swaying.</p>

    <p>No.</p>

    <p>There was a burst of flame and Dumbledore was standing there with Fawkes, his eyes filled with horror. ‘I felt a student die! What&#160;–’</p>

    <p>The old wizard’s eyes saw what lay upon the ground.</p>

    <p>‘Oh, no,’ whispered Albus Dumbledore. Fawkes gave a sad, mournful croon.</p>

    <p>‘Bring her back.’</p>

    <p>There was silence on the terrace. Fred Weasley had risen up into the air at a gesture from Dumbledore’s wand and was floating towards them, surrounded by a reassuring pink glow.</p>

    <p>‘Harry&#160;–’ the old wizard began. His voice cracked. ‘Harry&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Have Fawkes cry on her or whatever. Hurry up.’ The voice that spoke sounded perfectly calm.</p>

    <p>‘I, I can’t, Harry, it’s too late, she’s dead&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘I don’t want to hear about it. If it was me lying there, you’d pull some kind of amazing rabbit out of your hat and save me, right, because the hero isn’t allowed to die before the story’s over. Well, she’s the hero too, so whatever you were saving for that extra-special occasion, just go ahead and use it now. I promise I’ll pay you back.’</p>

    <p><i>‘There isn’t anything I can do! Her soul has departed, she’s passed on!’</i></p>

    <p>Harry opened his mouth to scream out all his fury, and then closed it again. There wasn’t any point in screaming, it wouldn’t accomplish anything. The unbearable pressure rising inside him couldn’t be let out that way.</p>

    <p>Harry turned away from Dumbledore and looked down at where the remains of Hermione Granger were lying in a pool of blood. Part of his mind was hammering at the world around him, trying to make it go away, wake up from the nightmare and find himself back in his Ravenclaw dorm with the morning sun shining through the curtains. But the blood remained and Harry didn’t wake up, and another part of him already knew that this event was real, part of the same flawed world that included Azkaban and the Wizengamot chamber and</p>

    <p>No</p>

    <p>With a fracturing feeling, as though time was still torn to pieces around him, Harry turned away from Dumbledore and looked down at the remains of Hermione Granger lying in a pool of blood with two tourniquets tied around her thigh-stumps, and decided</p>

    <p class="thought">No.</p>

    <p class="thought">I do not accept this.</p>

    <p class="thought">There isn’t any reason to accept it, not when there’s magic in the world.</p>

    <p>Harry would learn whatever he had to learn, invent whatever he had to invent, rip the knowledge of Salazar Slytherin from the Dark Lord’s mind, discover the secret of Atlantis, open any gates or break any seals necessary, find his way to the root of all magic and reprogram it.</p>

    <p>He would rip apart the foundations of reality itself to get Hermione Granger back.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>‘The crisis is over,’ the Defence Professor said. ‘You may dismount, Madam.’</p>

    <p>Trelawney, who had been sitting behind him on the two-person broomstick that had just blazed through Hogwarts burning directly through all the walls and floors in their way, hastily pulled herself off and then sat down hard on the floor, a pace away from the red-glowing edges of a newly made gap in the wall. The woman was still breathing in gasps, bending over herself as though she were on the verge of vomiting out something larger than she was.</p>

    <p>The Defence Professor had felt the boy’s horror, through the link that existed between the two of them, the resonance in their magic; and he had realized that the boy had sought the troll and found it. The Defence Professor had tried to send an impulse to retreat, to don the Cloak of Invisibility and flee; but he’d never been able to influence the boy through the resonance, and hadn’t succeeded that time either.</p>

    <p>He’d felt the boy give himself over fully to the killing intention. That was when the Defence Professor had begun burning through the substance of Hogwarts, trying to reach the battle in time.</p>

    <p>He’d felt the boy exterminate his enemy in seconds.</p>

    <p>He’d felt the boy’s dismay as one of his friends died.</p>

    <p>He’d felt the fury the boy had directed at some annoyance who was likely Dumbledore; followed by an unknown resolution whose unyielding hardness even he found adequate. With any luck, the boy had just discarded his foolish little reluctances.</p>

    <p>Unseen by anyone, the Defence Professor’s lips curved up in a thin smile. Despite its little ups and downs, on the whole this had been a surprisingly good day –</p>

    <p><i class="shout">‘He is here. The one who will tear apart the very stars in heaven. He is here. He is the end of the world.’</i></p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>