<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
<div class="calibre1">
    <p>A pinch of red-brown dust was gently sifted into the potions cauldron, and Harry asked his fourth and final question, the one that had seemed to have the lowest priority, but still mattered.</p>

    <p>‘What was your objective during the Wizarding War?’ Harry said. ‘I mean, what&#160;–’ His voice wobbled. ‘What was the <i>point</i> of the <i>entire thing?</i>’ His brain repeating endlessly, <i>Why, why, why Lord Voldemort …</i></p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell lifted an eyebrow. ‘They told you about David Monroe, did they not?’</p>

    <p>‘Yes you were both David Monroe and Lord Voldemort during the Wizarding War, I understood that part. You killed David Monroe, disguised yourself as him, and wiped out David Monroe’s family so they wouldn’t notice any differences&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Indeed.’</p>

    <p>‘You planned to control whichever side won the Wizarding War, regardless of which side won. But why did one side have to be <em>Voldemort?</em> I, I mean, wouldn’t it have been easier to gain public support with someone less … with someone less Voldemort?’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell’s mallet made an unusually loud <em>thud</em> as it crushed white butterfly wings, mixing them with another bellflower. ‘I <em>planned,</em>’ Professor Quirrell said harshly, ‘for Lord Voldemort to <em>lose</em> to David Monroe. The flaw in that strategy was the absolute wretchedness of&#160;–’ Professor Quirrell stopped. ‘No, I am telling the tale out of order. Listen, boy, when I had devised my great creation and come into the fullness of my magic, I thought the time had come for me to take political power into my hands. It would be inconvenient, certainly, and take up my time in ways that were not enjoyable. But I knew the Muggles would eventually destroy the world or make war on wizardkind or both, and something had to be done if I was not to wander a dead or dull world through my eternity. Having attained immortality I needed a new ambition to occupy my decades, and to prevent the Muggles from ruining everything seemed a goal of acceptable scope and difficulty. It is a source of continual amusement to me that I, of all people, am the only one really taking action towards that end. Though I suppose it would make sense for the mortal insects not to care about their world’s end; why should they, when they are just going to die regardless, and can save themselves the inconvenience of trying to do anything difficult along the way? But I digress. I saw how Dumbledore had risen to power from his defeat of Grindelwald, so I thought I would do the same. I had long ago taken my vengeance on David Monroe – he was an annoyance from my year in Slytherin – so I bethought to also steal his identity, and wipe out his family to make myself heir of his House. And I conceived also a great foe for David Monroe to fight, the most terrifying Dark Lord imaginable, clever beyond reckoning; more dangerous by far than Grindelwald, for his intelligence would be perfected in all the ways that Grindelwald had been flawed and self-destructive. A Dark Lord who would do his cunning utmost to disrupt the alliances who would fight him, a Dark Lord who would command the deepest loyalty from his followers through his oratorical skills. The most dreadful Dark Lord who had ever threatened Britain or the world, that was who David Monroe would defeat.’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell’s mallet struck a bellflower and then a different pale flower with two more thuds. ‘But then, while I had sometimes played the part of Dark Wizard in my wanderings, I had never adopted the identity of a full-fledged Dark Lord with underlings and a political agenda. I had no practise at the task, and I was mindful of the story of Dark Evangel and the disaster of her first public appearance. According to what she said afterwards, she had meant to call herself the Walking Catastrophe and the Apostle of Darkness, but in the excitement of the moment she introduced herself as the Apostrophe of Darkness instead. After that she had to ruin two entire villages before anyone took her seriously.’</p>

    <p>‘So you decided to try a small-scale experiment first,’ Harry said. A sickness rose up in him, because in that moment Harry <em>understood,</em> he saw himself reflected; the next step was just what Harry himself would have done, if he’d had no trace of ethics whatsoever, if he’d been that empty inside. ‘You created a disposable identity, to learn how the ropes worked, and get your mistakes out of the way.’</p>

    <p>‘Indeed. Before becoming a truly terrible Dark Lord for David Monroe to fight, I first created for practise the persona of a Dark Lord with glowing red eyes, pointlessly cruel to his underlings, pursuing a political agenda of naked personal ambition combined with blood purism as argued by drunks in Knockturn Alley. My first underlings were hired in a tavern, given cloaks and skull masks, and told to introduce themselves as Death Eaters.’</p>

    <p>The sick sense of understanding deepened, in the pit of Harry’s stomach. ‘And you called yourself Voldemort.’</p>

    <p>‘Just so, General Chaos.’ Professor Quirrell was grinning, from where he stood by the cauldron. ‘I wanted it to be an anagram of my name, but that would only have worked if I’d conveniently been given the middle name of “Marvolo”, and then it would have been a stretch. Our actual middle name is Morfin, if you’re curious. But I digress. I thought Voldemort’s career would last only a few months, a year at the longest, before the Aurors brought down his underlings and the disposable Dark Lord vanished. As you perceive, I had vastly overestimated my competition. And I could not <em>quite</em> bring myself to torture my underlings when they brought me bad news, no matter what Dark Lords did in plays. I could not <em>quite</em> manage to argue the tenets of blood purism as incoherently as if I were a drunk in Knockturn Alley. I was not trying to be clever when I sent my underlings on their missions, but neither did I give them entirely pointless orders&#160;–’ Professor Quirrell gave a rueful grin that, in another context, might have been called charming. ‘One month after that, Bellatrix Black prostrated herself before me, and after three months Lucius Malfoy was negotiating with me over glasses of expensive Firewhiskey. I sighed, gave up all hope for wizardkind, and began as David Monroe to oppose this fearsome Lord Voldemort.’</p>

    <p>‘And then what happened&#160;–’</p>

    <p>A snarl contorted Professor Quirrell’s face. ‘The absolute inadequacy of every single institution in the civilization of magical Britain is what happened! You cannot comprehend it, boy! I cannot comprehend it! It has to be seen and even then it cannot be believed! You will have observed, perhaps, that of your fellow students who speak of their family’s occupations, three in four seem to mention jobs in some part or another of the Ministry. You will wonder how a country can manage to employ three of its four citizens in bureaucracy. The answer is that if they did not all prevent each other from doing their jobs, none of them would have any work left to do! The Aurors were competent as individual fighters, they did fight Dark Wizards and only the best survived to train new recruits, but their leadership was in absolute disarray. The Ministry was so busy routing papers that the country had <em>no</em> effective opposition to Voldemort’s attacks except myself, Dumbledore, and a handful of untrained irregulars. A shiftless, incompetent, cowardly layabout, Mundungus Fletcher, was considered a key asset in the Order of the Phoenix – because, being otherwise unemployed, he did not need to juggle another job! I tried weakening Voldemort’s attacks, to see if it was <em>possible</em> for him to lose; at once the Ministry committed fewer Aurors to oppose me! I had read Mao’s Little Red Book, I had trained my Death Eaters in guerilla tactics – for nothing! For nothing! I was attacking all of magical Britain and in every engagement my forces <em>outnumbered</em> their opposition! In desperation, I ordered my Death Eaters to systematically assassinate every single incompetent managing the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. One paper-pusher after another volunteered to accept higher positions despite the fate of their predecessors, gleefully rubbing their hands at the prospect of promotion. Every one of them thought they would cut a deal with Lord Voldemort on the side. It took <i>seven months</i> to murder our way through them all, and not a single Death Eater asked why we were bothering. And then, even with Bartemius Crouch risen to Director and Amelia Bones as Head Auror, it was still too little. I could have done better fighting <em>alone.</em> Dumbledore’s aid was not worth his moral restraints, and Crouch’s aid was not worth his respect for the law.’ Professor Quirrell turned up the fire beneath the potion.</p>

    <p>‘And eventually,’ Harry said through the heart-sickness, ‘you realized you were just having more fun as Voldemort.’</p>

    <p>‘It is the least annoying role I have ever played. If Lord Voldemort says that something is to be done, people <i>obey him</i> and <i>do not argue.</i> I did not have to suppress my impulse to Cruciate people being idiots; for once it was all part of the role. If someone was making the game less pleasant for me, I just said <i>Avada Kedavra</i> regardless of whether that was strategically wise, and they never bothered me again.’ Professor Quirrell casually chopped a small worm into bits. ‘But my true epiphany came on a certain day when David Monroe was trying to get an entry permit for an Asian instructor in combat tactics, and a Ministry clerk denied it, smiling smugly. I asked the Ministry clerk if he understood that this measure was meant to <i>save his life</i> and the Ministry clerk only smiled more. Then in fury I threw aside masks and caution, I used my Legilimency, I dipped my fingers into the cesspit of his stupidity and <em>tore</em> out the truth from his mind. I did not understand and I <i>wanted to understand.</i> With my command of Legilimency I forced his tiny clerk-brain to live out alternatives, seeing what his clerk-brain would think of Lucius Malfoy, or Lord Voldemort, or Dumbledore standing in my place.’ Professor Quirrell’s hands had slowed, as he delicately peeled bits and small strips from a chunk of candle-wax. ‘What I finally realized that day is complicated, boy, which is why I did not understand it earlier in life. To you I shall try to describe it anyway. Today I know that Dumbledore does not stand at the top of the world, for all that he is the Supreme Mugwump of the International Confederation. People speak ill of Dumbledore openly, they criticize him proudly and to his face, in a way they would not dare stand up to Lucius Malfoy. <em>You</em> have acted disrespectfully toward Dumbledore, boy, do you know why you did so?’</p>

    <p>‘I’m … not sure,’ Harry said. Having Tom Riddle’s leftover neural patterns was certainly an obvious hypothesis.</p>

    <p>‘Wolves, dogs, even chickens, fight for dominance among themselves. What I finally understood, from that clerk’s mind, was that to him Lucius Malfoy had dominance, Lord Voldemort had dominance, and David Monroe and Albus Dumbledore did not. By taking the side of good, by professing to abide in the light, we had made ourselves <em>unthreatening.</em> In Britain, Lucius Malfoy has dominance, for he can call in your loans, or send Ministry bureaucrats against your shop, or crucify you in the <i>Daily Prophet,</i> if you go openly against his will. And the most powerful wizard in the world has no dominance, because everyone knows that he is,’ Professor Quirrell’s lips curled, ‘<i>a hero out of stories,</i> relentlessly self-effacing and too humble for vengeance. Tell me, child, have you ever seen a drama where the hero, before he consents to save his country, demands so much gold as a barrister might receive for a court case?’</p>

    <p>‘Actually there have been a <em>lot</em> of heroes like that in Muggle fiction, I’ll name Han Solo just to start&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Well, in magical drama it is not so. It is all humble heroes like Dumbledore. It is the fantasy of the powerful <em>slave</em> who will never truly rise above you, never demand your respect, never even ask you for pay. Do you understand now?’</p>

    <p>‘I … think so,’ Harry said. Frodo and Samwise from <i>Lord of the Rings</i> did seem to match the archetype of a completely non-threatening hero. ‘You’re saying that’s how people think of Dumbledore? I don’t believe the Hogwarts students see him as a hobbit.’</p>

    <p>‘In Hogwarts, Dumbledore does punish certain transgressions against his will, so he is feared to some degree – though the students still make free to mock him in more than whispers. Outside this castle, Dumbledore is sneered at; they began to call him mad, and he aped the part like a fool. Step into the role of a saviour out of plays, and people see you as a slave to whose services they are entitled and whom it is their enjoyment to criticize; for it is the privilege of masters to sit back and call forth helpful corrections while the slaves labour. Only in the tales of the ancient Greeks, from when men were less sophisticated in their delusions, may you see the hero who is also high. Hector, Aeneas, those were heroes who retained their right of vengeance upon those who insulted them, who could demand gold and jewels in payment for their services without sparking indignation. And if Lord Voldemort conquered Britain, he might then condescend to show himself noble in victory; and nobody would take his goodwill for granted, nor chirp corrections at him if his work was not to their liking. When he won, he would have <em>true</em> respect. I understood that day in the Ministry that by envying Dumbledore, I had shown myself as deluded as Dumbledore himself. I understood that I had been trying for the wrong place all along. You should know this to be true, boy, for you have made freer to speak ill of Dumbledore than you ever dared speak ill of me. Even in your own thoughts, I wager, for instinct runs deep. You knew that it might be to your cost to mock the strong and vengeful Professor Quirrell, but that there was no cost in disrespecting the weak and harmless Dumbledore.’</p>

    <p>‘Thank you,’ Harry said through the pain, ‘for that valuable lesson, Professor Quirrell, I see that you are right about what my mind was doing.’ Though Tom Riddle’s memories had probably also had something to do with the way he had sometimes lashed out at Dumbledore for no good reason, Harry hadn’t been like that around Professor McGonagall … who admittedly had the power to deduct House Points and didn’t have Dumbledore’s air of tolerance … no, it was still true, Harry would have been more respectful even in his own thoughts if Dumbledore had not seemed <em>safe</em> to disrespect.</p>

    <p>So that had been David Monroe, and that had been Lord Voldemort …</p>


</div>
</body>
</html>