<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
<div class="calibre1">
    <p>The sky had lightened further by the time Hermione spoke again.</p>

    <p>‘I’m afraid,’ Hermione said, almost in a whisper. ‘Not of dying again, or not <em>just</em> that. I’m afraid I won’t be good enough. I had my chance to defeat a troll, and instead I just died&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘That was a troll empowered by Voldemort as a weapon, plus he sabotaged all your magic items, just so you know.’</p>

    <p>‘I died. And you killed the troll, somehow, I think I remember that part, it didn’t even slow you down.’ Hermione wasn’t crying, no tears glistened on her cheeks, she simply gazed off at the lightening sky where the Sun would rise. ‘And then you brought me back from the dead as a Sparkling Unicorn Princess. I <em>know</em> I couldn’t have done that. I’m afraid I’ll <em>never</em> be able to do that, no matter what people think about me.’</p>

    <p>‘This situation is where your journey begins, I think&#160;–’ Harry paused. ‘Excuse me, I shouldn’t be trying to influence your decision.’</p>

    <p>‘No,’ Hermione whispered, still gazing at the hills below her. She raised her voice. ‘No, Harry, I want to hear this.’</p>

    <p>‘Okay. Um. I think this is where you <i>start.</i> Everything that’s happened up until now … it places you in the same place I started out in September, when I’d thought of myself as just being a child prodigy before, and then I found something new I needed to live up to. If you weren’t comparing yourself to me and my,’ <i>adult cognitive patterns copied off Tom Riddle,</i> ‘dark side … then you’d be the brightest star of Ravenclaw, who organized her own company to fight school bullies and kept her sanity under assault by Voldemort, all while she was only twelve years old. I looked it up, you got better grades than Dumbledore did in <i>his</i> first year.’ <i>Leaving aside the Defence grade, because that was just Voldemort being Voldemort.</i> ‘Now you have some powers, and a reputation to live up to, and the world is about to hand you some difficult tasks. That’s where it all <em>begins</em> for you, the same as it began for me. Don’t sell yourself short.’ And then Harry shut his mouth hard, because he was <i>talking Hermione into it</i> and that wasn’t right. He’d at least managed to stop before the part where he asked, if <em>she</em> couldn’t be a hero with all that going for her, who exactly she thought was going to do it.</p>

    <p>‘You know,’ Hermione said to the horizon, still not looking at Harry, ‘I had a conversation like this with Professor Quirrell, once, about being a hero. He was taking the other side, of course. But apart from that, this is feeling like when he argued with me, somehow.’</p>

    <p>Harry kept his lips pressed shut. Letting people make their own decisions was hard, because it meant they were allowed to make the <em>wrong</em> ones, but it still had to be done.</p>

    <p>Hermione spoke carefully, the blue fringes of her Hogwarts uniform now seeming brighter against her black robes as the sky all around them became illuminated; there were no more stars in the west. ‘Professor Quirrell told me, he said he’d been a hero once. But people weren’t helping him enough, so he gave up and went off to do something more interesting. I told Professor Quirrell that it hadn’t been right for him to do that – what I actually said was “that’s horrible”. Professor Quirrell said that, yes, maybe he was an awful person, but then what about all the other people who’d never tried to be heroes at all? Were they even worse than him? And I didn’t know what to say back. I mean, it’s wrong to say that only Gryffindor-style heroes are good people – though I think from Professor Quirrell’s perspective it was more like only people with big ambitions had a right to breathe. And I didn’t believe that. But it also seemed wrong to <em>stop</em> being a hero, to walk away like he’d done. So I just stood there looking silly. But now I know what I should’ve told him back then.’</p>

    <p>Harry controlled his breathing.</p>

    <p>Hermione stood up from her cushion, and turned to face Harry. ‘I’m done with trying to be a heroine,’ said Hermione Granger with the eastern sky brightening around her. ‘I shouldn’t ever have gone along with that entire line of thinking. There are just people who do what they can, whatever they can. And there are also people who don’t even try to do what they can, and yes, those people are doing something wrong. I’m not ever going to try to be a hero again. I’m not going to <em>think</em> in heroic terms if I can help it. But I won’t do any less than I can – or not a lot less, I mean, I’m only human.’ Harry had never understood what was supposed to be mysterious about the Mona Lisa, but if he could have taken a picture of Hermione’s resigned/joyous smile just then, he had the sense that he could have looked at it for hours without understanding, and that Dumbledore could have read through it at a glance. ‘I won’t learn my lesson. I <em>will</em> be that stupid. I’ll go on trying to do most of what I can, or at least <em>some</em> of what I can – oh, you know what I mean. Even if it means risking my life again, so long as it’s worth the risk and isn’t being, you know, <em>actually</em> stupid. That’s my answer.’ Hermione took a deep breath, her face resolute. ‘So, is there something I can do?’</p>

    <p>Harry’s throat was choked. He reached into his pouch, and signed C-L-O-A-K since he couldn’t speak, and drew forth the fuliginous spill of the Cloak of Invisibility, offering it to Hermione for the last time. Harry had to force the words from his throat. ‘This is the True Cloak of Invisibility,’ Harry said in almost a whisper, ‘the Deathly Hallow passed down from Ignotus Peverell to his heirs, the Potters. And now to you&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Harry!’ Hermione said. Her hands flew up across her chest, as though to protect herself from the attacking gift. ‘You don’t have to do this!’</p>

    <p>‘I <em>do</em> have to do this. I’ve left the part of the path that lets me be a hero, I can’t risk myself adventuring, ever. And you … can.’ Harry reached up the hand that wasn’t holding the Cloak, and wiped at his eyes. ‘This was made for you, I think. For the person you’re going to become.’ <i>A weapon to fight Death, in its form as the shadow of despair that falls on human minds and drains away their hope for the future; you will fight that, I expect, in more forms than just Dementors …</i> ‘I do not loan you, my Cloak, but give you, unto Hermione Jean Granger. Protect her well forevermore.’</p>

    <p>Slowly, Hermione reached out, and took hold of the Cloak, looking like she was trying not to cry herself. ‘Thank you,’ she whispered. ‘I think … even though I’m done with the notion of heroing … I think that you always were, from the day I met you, my mysterious old wizard.’</p>

    <p>‘And I think,’ Harry said, his own throat half-closed, ‘even if you deny that way of thinking now, I think that you were always destined to become, from the very beginning of the story, the hero.’ <i>Who must Hermione Granger become, what adult form must she take when she grows up, to pass through Time’s narrow keyhole? I don’t know the answer to that either, any more than I can imagine my own adult self. But her next few steps ahead seem clearer than mine …</i></p>

    <p>Harry let the Cloak go, and it passed from his hands to hers.</p>

    <p>‘It sings,’ Hermione said. ‘It’s singing to me.’ She reached up, and wiped at her own eyes. ‘I can’t believe you did that, Harry.’</p>

    <p>Harry’s other hand came out of his pouch, now bearing a long golden chain, at the end of which dangled a closed golden shell. ‘And this is your personal time machine.’</p>

    <p>There was a pause, during which the planet Earth rotated a bit further in its orbit.</p>

    <p>‘What?’ said Hermione.</p>

    <p>‘A Time-Turner, they call it. Hogwarts has a stock they give out to some students, I got one at the start of the year to treat my sleep disorder. It lets the user go backwards in time, in up to six one-hour increments, which I used to get six extra hours per day to study. And to vanish out of Potions class and so on. Don’t worry, a Time-Turner can’t change history or generate paradoxes that destroy the universe.’</p>

    <p>‘You were keeping up with me in lessons by studying six extra hours per day using a <i>time machine</i>.’ Hermione Granger seemed to be having trouble with this concept for some unaccountable reason.</p>

    <p>Harry made his face look puzzled. ‘Is there something odd about that?’</p>

    <p>Hermione reached out and took the golden necklace. ‘I guess <i>not by wizard standards,</i>’ she said. For some reason her voice sounded rather sharp. She arranged the chain around her neck, placing the hourglass inside her shirt. ‘I do feel better now about keeping up with you, though, so thank you for that.’</p>

    <p>Harry cleared his throat. ‘Also, since Voldemort wiped out the House of Monroe and then, so far as everyone believes, you avenged them by killing Voldemort, I got Amelia Bones to railroad a bill through what’s left of the Wizengamot, saying that Granger is now a Noble House of Britain.’</p>

    <p>‘Excuse me?’ said Hermione.</p>

    <p>‘That also makes you the only scion of a Noble House, which means that to get your legal majority you just need to pass your Ordinary Wizarding Levels, which I’ve set us up to do at the end of the summer so we’ll have some time to study first. If you’re okay with that, I mean.’</p>

    <p>Hermione Granger was making some sort of high-pitched noise that would, in a less organic device, have indicated an engine malfunction. <i>‘I have two months to study for my O.W.L.s?’</i></p>

    <p>‘Hermione, it’s a test designed so that most fifteen-year-olds can pass. <em>Ordinary</em> fifteen year-olds. We can get a passing grade with a low third-year’s power level if we learn the right set of spells, and that’s all we need for our majorities. Though you’ll need to come to terms with getting Acceptable scores instead of your usual Outstandings.’</p>

    <p>The high-pitched noises coming from Hermione Granger rose in pitch.</p>

    <p>‘Here’s your wand back.’ Harry took it from his pouch. ‘And your mokeskin pouch, I made sure they put back everything that was there when you died.’ That pouch Harry withdrew from a normal pocket of his robes, since he was reluctant to put a <i>bag of holding</i> inside a <i>bag of holding</i> no matter what was supposed to be harmless so long as both devices had been crafted observing all safety precautions.</p>

    <p>Hermione took her wand back, and then her pouch, the motions somehow managing to look graceful even though her fingers were a bit shaky.</p>

    <p>‘Let’s see, what else … the oath you swore before to House Potter only said you had to serve until “the day you die”, so you’re now free and clear. And right after your death I got the Malfoys to publicly declare that you were innocent of all charges in Draco’s attempted murder.’</p>

    <p>‘Why, thank you again, Harry,’ said Hermione Granger. ‘That was very nice of you, and them too, I guess.’ She was repeatedly running her fingers through her chestnut curls, as though, by organizing her hair, she could restore sanity to her life.</p>

    <p>‘Last but not least, I had the goblins start the process of building a vault in Gringotts for House Granger,’ Harry said. ‘I didn’t put any money into it, because that was something where I could wait and ask you first. But if you’re going to be a superhero who goes around righting certain kinds of wrongs, it will help a lot if people consider you to be part of the upper social strata and, um, I think it may help if they know you can afford lawyers. I can put in as much gold into your vault as you want, since after Voldemort killed Nicholas Flamel, I ended up holding the Philosopher’s Stone.’</p>

    <p>‘I feel like I ought to be fainting,’ Hermione said in a high-pitched voice, ‘only I can’t because of my superpowers and <em>why</em> do I have those again?’</p>

    <p>‘If it’s all right with you, your Occlumency lessons will start on Wednesday with Mr&#160;Bester, he can work with you once per day. Until then, I think it might be better for the true origin of your powers not to become known just because a Legilimens looks you in the eyes. I mean, obviously there’s a normal magical explanation, nothing <em>super</em>-supernatural, but people do tend to worship their own ignorance and, well, I think the Girl-Who-Revived will be more effective if you remain mysterious. Once you can keep out Mr&#160;Bester and beat Veritaserum, I’ll tell you the entire backstory, I promise, including all the secrets you can never tell anyone else.’</p>

    <p>‘That sounds lovely,’ said Hermione Granger. ‘I’m quite looking forward to it.’</p>

    <p>‘Though you’ll need to take an Unbreakable Vow to not do anything that might destroy the world before I can tell you the more dangerous parts of the story. I mean, I literally can’t tell you otherwise, because I took an Unbreakable Vow myself. Is that okay?’</p>

    <p>‘Sure,’ said Hermione. ‘Why shouldn’t it be okay? I wouldn’t want to destroy the world anyhow.’</p>

    <p>‘Do you need to sit down again?’ Harry said, feeling alarmed by the way Hermione was swaying slightly, as though in rhythm with the words being spoken.</p>

    <p>Hermione Granger took several deep breaths. ‘No, I’m perfectly peachy,’ she said. ‘Is there anything else I should know about?’</p>

    <p>‘That was it. I’m finished, at least for now.’ Harry paused. ‘I do understand that you want to do things for yourself, not just have them done for you. It’s just … you’re going to be a more serious kind of hero, and the only sane choice is for me to give you all the advantages I can manage&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘I understand that quite well,’ Hermione said. ‘Now that I’ve actually lost a fight and died. I didn’t used to understand, but now I do.’ A breeze ruffled Hermione’s chestnut hair and stirred her robes, making her look even more peaceful in the dawn air, as she raised one hand and carefully clenched it into a fist. ‘If I’m going to do this, I’m going to do it <em>right</em>. We need to measure how hard I can punch, and how high I can jump, and figure out a safe way to test if my fingernails can kill Lethifolds like a real unicorn’s horn, and I should practise using my speed to dodge spells I can’t let hit me and … and it sounds like you could maybe arrange for me to get Auror training, like from whoever taught Susan Bones.’ Hermione was smiling again now, a strange light in her eyes that would’ve puzzled Dumbledore for hours and that Harry understood immediately, not without a twinge of apprehension. ‘Oh! And I want to start carrying Muggle weapons, maybe hidden so nobody knows I have them. I thought of incendiary grenades when I was fighting the troll, but I knew I couldn’t Transfigure them fast enough, even after I stopped caring about obeying the rules.’</p>

    <p>‘I have the feeling,’ Harry said, imitating Professor McGonagall’s Scottish accent as best he could, ‘that I ought to be doing something about this.’</p>

    <p>‘Oh, it’s much, much, <em>much</em> too late for that, Mr&#160;Potter. Say, can you get me a bazooka? The rocket launcher, I mean, not the bubblegum? I bet they won’t be expecting <em>that</em> from a young girl, especially if I’m radiating an aura of innocence and purity.’</p>

    <p>‘All right,’ Harry said calmly, ‘<em>now</em> you’re starting to scare me.’</p>

    <p>Hermione paused from where she was experimenting with balancing on the tip of her left shoe, her arm reaching in one direction and her right leg stretched in the other, like a ballet dancer. ‘Am I? I was just thinking that I didn’t see what I could do that a Ministry squad of Hit Wizards couldn’t. They have broomsticks for mobility and spells that hit harder than I possibly could.’ She gracefully lowered her leg back down. ‘I mean, now that I can try a few things without worrying about who’s watching, I’m starting to think that I really really <em>really</em> like having superpowers. But I still don’t see how I could win a fight that Professor Flitwick couldn’t, not unless it involves me taking a Dark Wizard by surprise.’</p>

    <p><i>You can take risks other people shouldn’t, and try again with the knowledge of what killed you. You can experiment with new spells, more than anyone else could try without dying for sure.</i> But Harry couldn’t say any of that yet, so instead he said, ‘I think it’s okay to think more about the future, not just what you can do this very minute.’</p>

    <p>Hermione jumped high in the air, clicked her heels together three times on the way down, and landed on her tiptoes, perfectly posed. ‘But you said there was something I could do right away. Or were you just testing?’</p>

    <p>‘<em>That</em> part is a special case,’ Harry said, feeling the chill of the dawn air against his skin. He was increasingly not looking forward to telling super-Hermione that her Ordeal would involve facing her literal worst nightmare, under conditions where all her newfound physical strength would be useless.</p>

    <p>Hermione nodded, then glanced to the east. At once she went to the side of the roof and sat down, her feet dangling over the rooftop ledge. Harry went to her side and sat down too, sitting cross-legged and further back of the roof-edge.</p>

    <p>In the distance, a brilliant tinge of red was rising above the hills to the east of Hogwarts.</p>

    <p>Watching the tip of the sunrise made Harry feel better, somehow. So long as the Sun was in the sky, things were still all right on some level, like his having not yet destroyed the Sun.</p>

    <p>‘So,’ Hermione said. Her voice rose a bit. ‘Speaking of the future, Harry. I had time to think about a lot of things while I was waiting in St. Mungo’s, and … maybe it’s silly of me, but there’s a question I still want to know the answer to. Do you remember the last thing we talked about together? Before, I mean?’</p>

    <p>‘What?’ Harry said blankly.</p>

    <p>‘Oh …’ Hermione said. ‘It was two months ago for you … I guess you don’t recall, then.’</p>

    <p>And Harry remembered.</p>

    <p>‘Don’t panic!’ Hermione said, as a sort of strangled half-gurgle came from Harry’s throat. ‘I promise no matter what you say, I won’t burst into tears and run away and get eaten by a troll again! I know it’s been less than two days for me, but I think that dying has made a lot of things I used to fret about seem much less important compared to what I’ve been through!’</p>

    <p>‘Oh,’ Harry said, his own voice now high-pitched. ‘That’s a good use of a major trauma, I guess?’</p>

    <p>‘Only, see, I <em>was</em> still wondering about it, Harry, because for me it hasn’t been very long at all since our last conversation, and we didn’t finish talking which was admittedly all my own fault for losing control of my emotions and then being eaten by a troll which I am definitely not going to do again. I’ve been thinking I ought to reassure you that’s not going to happen every time you say the wrong thing to a girl.’ Hermione was fidgeting, leaning from one side to the other where she sat, slightly back and forth. ‘But, well, even most people who <em>are</em> in love don’t do literally one hundredth of what you’ve done for me. So, Mr&#160;Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, if it’s not love, I want to know exactly what I am to you. You never said.’</p>

    <p>‘That’s a good question,’ Harry said, controlling the rising panic. ‘Do you mind if I think about it?’</p>

    <p>Bit by bit, more of the searingly brilliant circle became visible beyond the hills.</p>

    <p>‘Hermione,’ Harry said when the Sun was halfway above the horizon, ‘did you ever invent any hypotheses to explain my mysterious dark side?’</p>

    <p>‘Just the obvious one,’ Hermione said, kicking her legs slightly over the rooftop’s edge. ‘I thought maybe when You-Know-Who died right next to you, he happened to give off the burst of magic that makes a ghost, and some of it imprinted on your brain instead of the floor. But that never felt right to me, like it was just a clever explanation that wasn’t actually <em>true,</em> and it makes even less sense if You-Know-Who didn’t really die that night.’</p>

    <p>‘Good enough,’ Harry said. ‘Let’s imagine that scenario for now.’ His inner rationalist was looking back and face-palming <em>again</em> at how he’d managed to not-think-about hypotheses like that one. It wasn’t true but it was <em>reasonable</em> and Harry had never thought of any causal model that concrete, just vaguely suspected a connection.</p>

    <p>Hermione nodded. ‘You probably know this already, but I just thought I’d say it to be sure: you’re not Voldemort, Harry.’</p>

    <p>‘I know. And <em>that’s</em> what you mean to me.’ Harry took a breath, finding it still painful to say aloud. ‘Voldemort … he wasn’t a happy person. I don’t know if he was ever happy, a single day in his life.’ <i>He never could cast the Patronus Charm.</i> ‘That’s one reason his cognitive patterns didn’t take me over, my dark side didn’t feel like a good place to be, it didn’t get positively reinforced. Being friends with you means that my life doesn’t have to go the way Voldemort’s did. And I was pretty lonely before Hogwarts, although I didn’t realise it then, so … yeah. I might’ve been slightly more desperate to bring you back from the dead than the average boy my age would’ve been. Though I also maintain that my decision was strictly normative moral reasoning, and if other people care less about their friends, that’s their problem, not mine.’</p>

    <p>‘I see,’ Hermione said softly. She hesitated. ‘Harry, don’t take this the wrong way, but I’m not one hundred percent comfortable with that. It’s a big responsibility that I didn’t choose, and I don’t think it’s healthy for you to lay it on just one person.’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded. ‘I know. But there’s more to the point I’m trying to make. There was a prophecy about my vanquishing Voldemort&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘A <em>prophecy?</em> There was a <em>prophecy</em> about you? Seriously, Harry?’</p>

    <p>‘Yeah, I know. Anyway, part of it went, “And the Dark Lord shall mark him as his equal, but he shall have power the Dark Lord knows not.” What would you guess that meant?’</p>

    <p>‘Hmmm,’ Hermione said. Her fingers tapped thoughtfully on the roof’s stone. ‘Your mysterious dark side is You-Know-Who’s mark on you that made you his equal. The power he knew not … was the scientific method, right?’</p>

    <p>Harry shook his head. ‘That’s what I thought too at first – that it was going to be Muggle science, or the methods of rationality. But …’ Harry exhaled. The Sun had now fully risen above the hills. This felt embarrassing to say, but he was going to say it anyway. ‘Professor Snape, who originally heard the prophecy – yes, that’s also a thing that happened – Professor Snape said he didn’t think it could just be science, that the “power the Dark Lord knows not” needed to be something more alien to Voldemort than just that. Even if I think of it in terms of rationality, well, it turns out that the person Voldemort really was,’ <i>why, Professor Quirrell, why,</i> the thought still stabbing sickness at Harry’s heart, ‘he’d have been able to learn the methods of rationality too, if he read the same science papers I did. Except, maybe, for one last thing …’ Harry drew a breath. ‘At the end of all of it, during my final showdown with Voldemort, he threatened to put my parents, and my friends, into Azkaban. Unless I came up with interesting secrets to tell him, one person saved per secret. But I knew I couldn’t find enough secrets to save everyone. And in the moment that I saw no way at all left to save everyone … that’s when I actually started thinking. Maybe for the first time in my life, I started thinking. I thought faster than Voldemort, even though he was older than me and smarter, because … because I had a <i>reason to think</i>. Voldemort had a drive to be immortal, he strongly preferred not to die, but that wasn’t a positive desire, it was <em>fear,</em> and Voldemort made mistakes because of that fear. I think the power that Voldemort knew not … was that I had something to protect.’</p>

    <p>‘Oh, Harry,’ Hermione said gently. She hesitated. ‘Is that what I am to you, then? The thing that you protect?’</p>

    <p>‘No, I mean, the whole reason I’m telling you this, is that Voldemort wasn’t threatening to put <em>you</em> in Azkaban. Even if he’d taken over the whole world, you’d have been fine. He’d already made a binding promise not to harm you, because of, um, because of reasons. So in my moment of ultimate crisis, when I reached deep down and found the power Voldemort knew not, I did it to protect everyone except you.’</p>

    <p>Hermione considered this, a slow smile spreading over her face. ‘Why, Harry,’ she said. ‘That’s the least romantic thing I’ve ever heard.’</p>

    <p>‘You’re welcome.’</p>

    <p>‘No, really, it <em>does</em> help,’ Hermione said. ‘I mean, it makes the whole thing much less stalkery.’</p>

    <p>‘I know, right?’</p>

    <p>The two of them shared a companionable nod, both of them looking more relaxed now, and watched the sunrise together.</p>

    <p>‘I’ve been thinking,’ Harry said, his own voice going soft, ‘about the alternate Harry Potter, the person I might have been if Voldemort hadn’t attacked my parents.’ <i>If Tom Riddle hadn’t tried to copy himself onto me.</i> ‘That other Harry Potter wouldn’t have been as smart, I guess. He probably wouldn’t have studied much Muggle science, even if his mother was a Muggleborn. But that other Harry Potter would’ve had … the capacity for warmth, that he inherited from James Potter and Lily Evans, he would’ve cared about other people and tried to save his friends, I know that would have been true, because that’s something that Lord Voldemort never did, you see …’ Harry’s eyes were watering. ‘So that part must be the remnant.’</p>

    <p>The Sun was well above the horizon now, the golden light illuminating both of them, casting long shadows off the other side of the rooftop platform.</p>

    <p>‘I think you’re just fine the way you are,’ Hermione said. ‘I mean, that other Harry Potter might’ve been a nice boy, maybe, but it sounds like I would’ve had to do all his thinking for him.’</p>

    <p>‘Going by heredity, alter-Harry would have been in Gryffindor like his parents, and the two of you wouldn’t have become friends. Though James Potter and Lily Evans were the Head Boy and Head Girl of Hogwarts back in their day, so he wouldn’t have been <em>that</em> bad.’</p>

    <p>‘I can just imagine it,’ Hermione said. ‘Harry James Potter, Sorted into Gryffindor, aspiring Quidditch player&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘No. Just no.’</p>

    <p>‘Remembered by history as the sidekick of Hermione Jean Granger, who’d send out Mr&#160;Potter to get into trouble for her, and then solve the mystery from the library by reading books and using her incredible memory.’</p>

    <p>‘You’re really enjoying this alternate universe, aren’t you.’</p>

    <p>‘Maybe he’d be best mates with Ron Weasley, the <em>smartest</em> boy in Gryffindor, and they’d fight side by side in my army in Defence class, and afterwards help each other with their homework&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Okay, enough, this is starting to creep me out.’</p>

    <p>‘Sorry,’ Hermione said, though she was still smiling to herself, appearing rapt in some private vision.</p>

    <p>‘Apology accepted,’ Harry said dryly.</p>

    <p>The Sun rose a little further in the sky.</p>

    <p>After a while, Hermione spoke. ‘<em>Do</em> you suppose we’ll fall in love with each other later on?’</p>

    <p>‘I don’t know any better than you do, Hermione. But why does it have to be about that? Seriously, why does it always have to be about that? Maybe when we’re older we’ll fall in love, and maybe we won’t. Maybe we’ll stay in love, and maybe we won’t.’ Harry turned his head slightly, the Sun was hot on his cheek and he wasn’t wearing sunscreen. ‘No matter how it goes, we shouldn’t try to force our lives into a pattern. I think when people try to <em>force</em> patterns onto this sort of thing, that’s when they end up unhappy.’</p>

    <p>‘No forced patterns?’ Hermione said. Her eyes had taken on a mischievous look. ‘That sounds like a more complicated way of saying <i>no rules</i>. Which I guess seems a lot more reasonable to me than it would’ve at the start of this year. If I’m going to be a Sparkling Unicorn Princess and have my own time machine, I might as well give up on rules, I suppose.’</p>

    <p>‘I’m not saying that rules are always bad, especially when they actually fit people, instead of them being blindly imitated like Quidditch. But weren’t you the one who rejected the “hero” pattern in favour of just doing the things she could?’</p>

    <p>‘I suppose so.’ Hermione turned her head again to gaze down at the grounds below Hogwarts, for the Sun was too bright to look at now – though, Harry thought, Hermione’s retinas would always heal now, it was safe for her alone to look directly into the light. ‘You said, Harry, that you thought I was always destined to be the hero. I’ve been considering, and I suspect you’re completely wrong. If this had been <em>meant</em> to be, things would’ve been a lot easier all round. Just doing the things you can do – you have to <em>make</em> that happen, you have to choose it, over and over again.’</p>

    <p>‘That might not conflict with your being a destined hero,’ Harry said, thinking of compatibilist theories of free will, and prophecies that he must not look upon in order to fulfil. ‘But we can talk about that later.’</p>

    <p>‘You have to choose it,’ Hermione repeated. She pushed herself up on her hands, then popped herself backwards and onto the rooftop, rising to her feet in a smooth motion. ‘Just like I’m choosing to do this.’</p>

    <p>‘No kissing!’ Harry said, scrambling to his feet and preparing to dodge; though the realization came to him that the Girl-Who-Revived would be much, much faster.</p>

    <p>‘I won’t try to kiss you again, Mr&#160;Potter. Not until you ask me, if you ever do. But there are all these warm feelings bubbling up inside me and I feel like I might burst if I don’t do <em>something,</em> though it does now occur to me that it’s unhealthy if girls don’t know any way of expressing gratitude to boys besides kissing them.’ Hermione took out her wand and offered it crosswise, in the position she’d used to swear her oath of fealty to House Potter before the Wizengamot.</p>

    <p>‘Oh <em>hell</em> no,’ Harry said. ‘Do you realise what it took to get you out of that oath <em>last</em> time&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Don’t go jumping to conclusions, you. I wasn’t about to swear fealty to your House again. You’ve got to start trusting me to be sensible if you’re going to be my mysterious young wizard. Now please hold out your wand.’</p>

    <p>Slowly, Harry took out the Elder Wand and crossed it with Hermione’s ten-and-three-quarter-inches of vinewood, forcing down a last worry about her choosing the wrong thing. ‘Can you at least not say anything about “until death takes me”, because did I mention I have the Philosopher’s Stone now? Or anything about “the end of the world and its magic”? I’m a lot more nervous around phrases like that than I used to be.’</p>


</div>
</body>
</html>