<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
  <h1>Taboo Tradeoffs, Aftermath 2</h1>

  <div class="calibre1">
    <p>When Hermione Granger woke, she found herself lying in a soft, comfortable bed of the Hogwarts infirmary, with a square of setting sunlight falling on her midriff, warm through the thin blanket. Memory said that there would be a screen-sheet above her, either drawn around her bed or open, and that the rest of Madam Pomfrey’s domain would lie beyond: the other beds, occupied or unoccupied, and bright windows set in the curvily-carven stone of Hogwarts.</p>

    <p>When Hermione opened her eyes, the first thing she saw was the face of Professor McGonagall, sitting on the left side of her bed. Professor Flitwick wasn’t there, but that was understandable, he’d stayed by her side all morning in the detention cell, his silver raven standing extra guard against the Dementor and his stern little face always turned outward toward the Aurors. The Head of Ravenclaw had surely spent way too much time on her, and probably had to get back to teaching his classes, instead of keeping watch on a convicted attempted-murderess.</p>

    <p>She felt horribly, horribly sick and she didn’t think it was because of any potions. Hermione would’ve started crying again, only her throat hurt, her eyes still burned, and her mind just felt tired. She couldn’t have borne to weep again, couldn’t find the strength for tears.</p>

    <p>‘Where are my parents?’ Hermione whispered to the Head of House Gryffindor. Somehow it seemed like the worst thing in the world to face them, even worse than everything else; and yet she still wanted to see them.</p>

    <p>The gentle look on Professor McGonagall’s face Transfigured into something sadder. ‘I’m sorry, Miss&#160;Granger. Though it was not always so, we have found in recent years that it is wiser not to tell the parents of Muggleborns about any danger their child has faced. I should advise you also to remain silent, if you wish to stay at Hogwarts without trouble from them.’</p>

    <p>‘I’m not being expelled?’ the girl whispered. ‘For what I did?’</p>

    <p>‘No,’ said Professor McGonagall. ‘Miss&#160;Granger … surely you heard … I hope you heard Mr&#160;Potter, when he said that you were innocent?’</p>

    <p>‘He was just saying that,’ she said dully. ‘To get me free, I mean.’</p>

    <p>The older witch shook her head firmly. ‘No, Miss&#160;Granger. Mr&#160;Potter believes you were Memory-Charmed, that the whole duel never happened. The Headmaster suspects even Darker magics may have been involved – that your own hand might have cast the spell, but not your own will. Even Professor Snape finds the affair completely unbelievable, though he may not be able to say so publicly. He was wondering if Muggle drugs might have been used on you.’</p>

    <p>Hermione’s eyes went on staring distantly at the Transfiguration Professor; she knew that she’d just been told something significant, but she couldn’t find the energy to propagate any changes through her mind.</p>

    <p>‘Surely <em>you</em> don’t believe it?’ said Professor McGonagall. ‘Miss&#160;Granger, you cannot believe of yourself that you would turn to murder!’</p>

    <p>‘But I&#160;–’ Her excellent memory helpfully replayed it for the thousandth time, Draco Malfoy telling her with a sneer that she’d never beat him when he wasn’t tired, and then proceeding to prove just that, dancing like a duellist between the warded trophies while she frantically scrambled, and dealing the ending blow with a hex that sent her crashing against the wall and drew blood from her cheek – and then – then she’d –</p>

    <p>‘But you remember doing it,’ said the older witch, who was watching over her with kindly understanding. ‘Miss&#160;Granger, there is no need for a twelve-year-old girl to bear such dreadful memories. Say the word and I shall be happy to lock them away for you.’</p>

    <p>It was like a glass of warm water thrown into her face. ‘What?’</p>

    <p>Professor McGonagall took out her wand, a gesture so practised and quick that it seemed like pointing a finger. ‘I can’t offer to rid you of the memories entirely, Miss&#160;Granger,’ the Transfiguration Professor said with her customary precision. ‘There may be important facts buried there. But there is a form of the Memory Charm which is reversible, and I shall be happy to cast that on you.’</p>

    <p>Hermione stared at the wand, feeling the stirrings of hope for the first time in almost two days.</p>

    <p><i>Make it not’ve happened</i> … she’d wished that over and over again, for the hands of time to turn back and erase the horrible choice that could never, ever be undone. And if erasing the memory wasn’t that, it was still a kind of release …</p>

    <p>She looked back at Professor McGonagall’s kindly face.</p>

    <p>‘You <em>really</em> don’t think I did it?’ Hermione said, her voice trembling.</p>

    <p>‘I am <em>quite</em> certain you would never do such a thing of your own will.’</p>

    <p>Beneath her blankets, Hermione’s hands clutched at the sheets. ‘<em>Harry</em> doesn’t think I did it?’</p>

    <p>‘Mr&#160;Potter is of the opinion that your memories are entire fabrications. I can rather see his point.’</p>

    <p>Then Hermione’s clutching fingers let go of the sheet, and she slumped back into the bed, from which she’d partially risen.</p>

    <p>No.</p>

    <p>She hadn’t said anything.</p>

    <p>She’d woken up and remembered what had happened last night, and it had been like – like – she couldn’t find words even in her own thoughts for what it had been like. But she’d known that Draco Malfoy was already dead, and she hadn’t said anything, hadn’t gone to Professor Flitwick and confessed. She’d just dressed herself and gone down to breakfast and <i>tried to act normal</i> so that nobody would ever know, and she’d known it was wrong and Wrong and horribly horribly WRONG but she’d been so, so scared –</p>

    <p>Even if Harry Potter was right, even if the duel with Draco Malfoy was a lie, she’d made <em>that</em> choice all by herself. She didn’t deserve to forget that, or be forgiven for it.</p>

    <p>And if she <em>had</em> done the right thing, gone straight to Professor Flitwick, maybe that would’ve – helped, somehow, maybe everyone would’ve seen then that she regretted it, and Harry wouldn’t have had to give away all his money to save her –</p>

    <p>Hermione shut her eyes, squeezed them shut really tight, she couldn’t bear to start crying again. ‘I’m a horrible person,’ she said in a wavering voice. ‘I’m awful, I’m not heroic at all&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Professor McGonagall’s voice was very sharp, like Hermione had just made some dreadful mistake on her Transfiguration homework. ‘Stop being foolish, Miss&#160;Granger! <em>Horrible</em> is whoever did this to you. And as for being heroic – well, Miss&#160;Granger, you have already heard my opinion about young girls trying to involve themselves in such things before they are even fourteen, so I shall not lecture you on it again. I shall say only that you have just had an absolutely dreadful experience, which you survived as well as any witch in your year possibly could. Today you are allowed to cry as much as you like. Tomorrow you are going back to class.’</p>

    <p>That was when Hermione knew that Professor McGonagall couldn’t help her. She needed someone to scold her, she couldn’t be absolved if she couldn’t be blamed, and Professor McGonagall would never do that for her, would never ask so much of a little Ravenclaw girl.</p>

    <p>It was something Harry Potter wouldn’t help her with either.</p>

    <p>Hermione turned over in the infirmary bed, huddling into herself, away from Professor McGonagall. ‘Please,’ she whispered. ‘I want to talk – to the Headmaster&#160;–’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>‘Hermione.’</p>

    <p>When Hermione Granger opened her eyes a second time, she saw the care-lined face of Albus Dumbledore leaning over her bedside, looking almost as though <em>he’d</em> been crying, though that was impossible; and Hermione felt another stabbing pang of guilt for having bothered him so.</p>

    <p>‘Minerva said you wished to speak with me,’ the old wizard said.</p>

    <p>‘I&#160;–’ Suddenly Hermione didn’t know at all what to say. Her throat locked up, and all she could do was stammer, ‘I – I’m&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Somehow her tone must have communicated the other word, the one she couldn’t even say any more.</p>

    <p><em>‘Sorry?’</em> said Dumbledore. ‘Why, for what should you be sorry?’</p>

    <p>She had to force the words out of her throat. ‘You were telling Harry – that he shouldn’t pay – so <em>I</em> shouldn’t – have done what Professor McGonagall said, I shouldn’t have touched his wand&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘My dear,’ said Dumbledore, ‘had you not pledged yourself to the House of Potter, Harry would have attacked Azkaban single-handedly, and quite possibly won. That boy may choose his words carefully, but I have never yet known him to lie; and in the Boy-Who-Lived there is power that the Dark Lord never knew. He would indeed have tried to break Azkaban, even at cost of his life.’ The old wizard’s voice grew gentler, and kinder. ‘No, Hermione, you have nothing at all for which to blame yourself.’</p>

    <p>‘I could have <em>made</em> him not do it.’</p>

    <p>In Dumbledore’s eyes a small twinkle appeared before it was lost to weariness. ‘Really, Miss&#160;Granger? Perhaps you should be Headmistress in my place, for I myself have no such power over stubborn children.’</p>

    <p>‘Harry promised&#160;–’ Her voice stopped. The awful truth was very hard to speak. ‘Harry Potter promised me – that he would never help me – if I told him not to.’</p>

    <p>There was a pause. The distant noises of the infirmary that had accompanied Professor McGonagall had ceased, Hermione realized, when Dumbledore had awoken her. From where she lay in bed she could see only the ceiling, and the top of one wall’s windows, but nothing in her range of vision moved, and if there were sounds, she could not hear them.</p>

    <p>‘Ah,’ said Dumbledore. The old wizard sighed heavily. ‘I suppose it <em>is</em> possible that the boy would have kept his promise.’</p>

    <p>‘I should – I should’ve&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Gone to Azkaban of your own will?’ Dumbledore said. ‘Miss&#160;Granger, that is more than I would ever ask anyone to take upon themselves.’</p>

    <p>‘But&#160;–’ Hermione swallowed. She couldn’t help but notice the loophole, anyone who wanted to get through the portrait-door to the Ravenclaw dorm quickly learned to pay attention to exact wordings. ‘But it’s not more than you’d take on <em>yourself</em>.’</p>

    <p>‘Hermione&#160;–’ the old wizard began.</p>

    <p>‘Why?’ said Hermione’s voice, it seemed to be running on without her mind, now. ‘Why couldn’t I be braver? I was going to run in front of the Dementor – for Harry – before, I mean, in January – so why – why – why couldn’t I&#160;–’ Why had the thought of being sent to Azkaban just completely <em>unglued</em> her, why had she forgotten everything about being Good –</p>

    <p>‘My dear girl,’ Dumbledore said. The blue eyes behind the half-moon glasses showed a complete understanding of her guilt. ‘I would have done no better myself, in my first year in Hogwarts. As you would be kind to others, be kinder to yourself as well.’</p>

    <p>‘So I <em>did</em> do the wrong thing.’ Somehow she needed to say that, to be told that, even though she already knew.</p>

    <p>There was a pause.</p>

    <p>‘Listen, young Ravenclaw,’ the old wizard said, ‘hear me well, for I shall speak to you a truth. Most ill-doers do not think of themselves as evil; indeed, most conceive themselves the heroes of the stories they tell. I once thought that the greatest evil in this world was done in the name of the greater good. I was wrong. Terribly wrong. There is evil in this world which knows itself for evil, and hates the good with all its strength. All fair things does it desire to destroy.’</p>

    <p>Hermione shivered in her bed, somehow it seemed very real, when Dumbledore said it.</p>

    <p>The old wizard continued speaking. ‘You are one of the fair things of this world, Hermione Granger, and so that evil hates you as well. If you had stayed firm through even this trial, it would have struck you harder and yet harder, until you shattered. Do not think that heroes cannot be broken! We are only more difficult to break, Hermione.’ The old wizard’s eyes had grown sterner than she had ever seen. ‘When you have been exhausted for many hours, when pain and death is not a passing fear but a certainty, then it is harder to be a hero. If I must speak the truth – then today, yes, I would not waver in the face of Azkaban. But when I was a first-year in Hogwarts – I would have fled from the Dementor that you confronted, for my father had died in Azkaban, and I feared them. Know this! The evil that struck at you could have broken anyone, even myself. Only Harry Potter has it within him to face that horror, when he has come fully into his power.’</p>

    <p>Hermione’s neck couldn’t stare at the old wizard any longer; she let her head fall back, back to the pillow, where she stared up at the ceiling, absorbing what she could.</p>

    <p>‘Why?’ Her voice trembled again. ‘Why would anyone be that evil? I don’t understand.’</p>

    <p>‘I, too, have wondered,’ said Dumbledore’s voice, a deep sadness in it. ‘For thrice ten years I wondered, and I still do not understand. You and I will never understand, Hermione Granger. But at least I know now what true evil would say for itself, if we could speak to it and ask why it was evil. It would say, <i>Why not?</i>’</p>

    <p>A brief flare of indignation inside her. ‘There’s got to be a <em>million</em> reasons why not!’</p>

    <p>‘Indeed,’ said Dumbledore’s voice. ‘A million reasons and more. We will always know those reasons, you and I. If you insist on putting it that way – then yes, Hermione, this day’s trial broke you. But what happens <em>after</em> you break – that, too, is part of being a hero. Which you are, Hermione Granger, and will always be.’</p>

    <p>She raised her head again, staring at him.</p>

    <p>The old wizard got up from beside her bed. His silver beard dipped down, as Dumbledore bowed to her gravely, and left.</p>

    <p>She went on looking at where the old wizard had gone.</p>

    <p>It should have meant something to her, should have touched her. Should have made her felt better inside, that Dumbledore, who had seemed so reluctant before, had now acknowledged her as a hero.</p>

    <p>She felt nothing.</p>

    <p>Hermione let her head fall back to the bed, as Madam Pomfrey came and made her drink something that seared her lips like the afterburn of spicy food, and smelled even hotter, and didn’t taste like anything at all. It meant nothing to her. She went on staring up at the distant stone tiles of the ceiling.</p>

    <hr/>


</div>
</body>
</html>