<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
<div class="calibre1">
    <p>From behind Draco came the sound of the door opening again.</p>

    <p>Draco heard Harry’s footsteps entering the classroom, but Draco didn’t turn to look.</p>

    <p>Harry didn’t say anything either. The silence stretched.</p>

    <p>Finally –</p>

    <p>‘What does this <em>mean?</em>’ Draco said. His voice wavered a bit.</p>

    <p>‘It means you love your father,’ Harry’s voice said. Which was just what Draco had been thinking, and trying not to cry in front of Harry. It was too right, just too right –</p>

    <p>Before Draco, on the floor, was the shining form of a snake that Draco recognized; a Blue Krait, a snake first brought to their manor by Lord Abraxas Malfoy after a visit to some faraway land, and Father had kept a Blue Krait in the ophidarium ever since. The thing about the Blue Krait was that the bite wouldn’t hurt much. Father had said that, and told Draco that he was <em>never</em> allowed to pet the snake, no matter who was watching. The venom killed your nerves so fast that you didn’t have time to feel pain as the poison spread. You could die of it even after using Healing Charms. It ate other snakes. It was as Slytherin as any creature could possibly be.</p>

    <p>That was why a Blue Krait head had been forged into the handle of Father’s cane.</p>

    <p>The bright snake darted out its tongue, which was also silver; and seemed to <em>smile</em> somehow, in a warmer way than any reptile should.</p>

    <p>And then Draco realized –</p>

    <p>‘But,’ Draco said, still staring at the beautifully radiant snake, ‘<em>you</em> can’t cast the Patronus Charm.’ Now that Draco had cast it himself, he understood why that was important. You could be evil, like Dumbledore, and still cast the Patronus Charm, so long as you had <em>something</em> bright left inside you. But if Harry Potter didn’t have a single thought inside him that shone like that –</p>

    <p>‘The Patronus Charm is more complicated than you think, Draco,’ Harry said seriously. ‘Not everyone who fails at casting it is a bad person, or even unhappy. But anyway, I <em>can</em> cast it. I did it on my second try, after I realized what I’d done wrong facing the Dementor my first time. But, well, my life gets a little peculiar sometimes, and my Patronus came out strange, and I’m keeping it a secret for now&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Am I supposed to just <em>believe</em> that?’</p>

    <p>‘You can ask Professor Quirrell if you don’t believe me,’ said Harry. ‘Ask him whether Harry Potter can cast a corporeal Patronus, and tell him that I told you to ask. He’d know the request was from me, no one else would know.’</p>

    <p>Oh, and now Draco was to trust <i>Professor Quirrell?</i> Still, knowing Harry, it might be true; and Professor Quirrell wouldn’t lie for trivial reasons.</p>

    <p>The glowing snake turned its head back and forth, as though seeking a prey that wasn’t there, and then coiled itself into a circle, as though to rest.</p>

    <p>‘I wonder,’ Harry said softly, ‘when it was, which year, which generation, that Slytherins stopped trying to learn the Patronus Charm. When it was that people started to think, that Slytherins themselves started to think, that being cunning and ambitious was the same as being cold and unhappy. And if Salazar knew that his students didn’t even bother showing up to learn the Patronus Charm any more, I wonder, would he wish that he’d never been born? I wonder how it all went wrong, when Slytherin’s House went wrong.’</p>

    <p>The shining creature winked out, the turmoil rising in Draco making it impossible to sustain the Charm. Draco spun on Harry, he had to control himself not to raise his wand. ‘What do <em>you</em> know about Slytherin House <em>or</em> Salazar Slytherin? <em>You</em> were never Sorted into my House, what gives you the right to&#160;–’</p>

    <p>And <em>that</em> was when Draco <em>finally</em> realized.</p>

    <p><i>‘You did get Sorted into Slytherin!’</i> Draco said. ‘You <i>did,</i> and afterwards you, you somehow, you <i>snapped your fingers –</i>’ Draco had once asked Father if it would be cleverer to get Sorted into some other House so that everyone would trust him, and Father had smiled and said that he’d thought of that too at Draco’s age, but there was no way to fool the Sorting Hat …</p>

    <p>… not until <i>Harry Potter</i> came along.</p>

    <p>How had he ever bought for <i>one minute</i> that <em>Harry</em> was a <em>Ravenclaw?</em></p>

    <p>‘An interesting hypothesis,’ Harry said equably. ‘Do you know, you’re the second person in Hogwarts to come up with a theory along those lines? At least you’re the second that’s actually said so to my face&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Snape,’ Draco said with certainty. His Head of House was no fool.</p>

    <p>‘Professor Quirrell, <i>of course,</i>’ said Harry. ‘Though come to think, Severus did ask me how I managed to stay out of his House, and whether I had something the Sorting Hat wanted. I suppose you could say you’re number three. Oh, but Professor Quirrell’s theory was a little different than yours, though. May I have your word not to repeat it?’</p>

    <p>Draco nodded without even really thinking about it. What was he supposed to do, say no?</p>

    <p>‘Professor Quirrell thought that Dumbledore wasn’t happy with the Hat’s choice for the Boy-Who-Lived.’</p>

    <p>And the instant Harry said it, Draco knew, he <em>knew</em> that it was true, it was just <em>obvious</em>. Who did Dumbledore even think he was fooling?</p>

    <p>… well, besides every single other person in Hogwarts except Snape and Quirrell, Harry might even believe it <em>himself</em> …</p>

    <p>Draco stumbled back over to his desk in something of a daze, and sat down hard enough to hurt slightly. This sort of thing happened around once a month with Harry, and it hadn’t happened yet in January, so it was time.</p>

    <p>His fellow Slytherin, who might or might not think himself a Ravenclaw, sat back down in the chair he’d used earlier, now sitting on it crosswise, and looking up intently at Draco.</p>

    <p>Draco didn’t know <em>what</em> he should be doing now, whether he should be trying to persuade the lost Slytherin boy that, no, he <em>wasn’t</em> actually a Ravenclaw … or trying to figure out whether Harry was in league with Dumbledore, though that suddenly seemed less likely … but then <em>why</em> had Harry set up the whole thing with him and Granger …</p>

    <p>He really <em>should</em> have remembered that Harry was too weird for any normal plots.</p>

    <p>‘Harry,’ Draco said. ‘Did you deliberately antagonize me and General Sunshine just so we’d work together against you?’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded without hesitation, as though it was the most normal thing in the world, and nothing to be ashamed of.</p>

    <p>‘The whole thing with the gloves and making us climb up the walls of Hogwarts, the <i>only point</i> was to make me and Granger more friendly toward each other. And even before then. You’ve been plotting it for a really long time. Since the <em>beginning</em>.’</p>

    <p>Again the nod.</p>

    <p><em>‘WHYYYYY?’</em></p>

    <p>Harry’s eyebrows lifted for a moment, the only reaction he showed to Draco shrieking so loudly in the closed classroom that it hurt his own ears. <span class="shout">Why, why, why</span> did Harry Potter <i class="shout">Do</i> this sort of thing …</p>

    <p>Then Harry said, ‘So that Slytherins will be able to cast the Patronus Charm again.’</p>

    <p><i>‘That … doesn’t … make … <span class="shout">Sense!’</span></i> Draco was aware that he was losing control of his voice, but he didn’t seem able to stop himself. <i>‘What does that have to do with Granger?’</i></p>

    <p>‘Patterns,’ Harry said. His face was very serious now, and very grave. ‘Like a quarter of children born to Squib couples being wizards. A simple, unmistakable pattern you would recognize instantly, if you knew what you were looking at; even though, if you didn’t know, you wouldn’t even realize it was a clue. The poison in Slytherin House is something that’s been seen before in the Muggle world. This is an <em>advance</em> prediction, Draco, I could have written it down for you before our first day of school, just from hearing you talk in King’s Cross Station. Let me describe some really pathetic sorts of people that hang around at your father’s political rallies, pureblood families that would never be invited to dinner at Malfoy Manor. Bearing in mind that <em>I’ve</em> never met them, I’m just predicting it from recognizing the pattern of what’s happening to Slytherin House&#160;–’</p>

    <p>And Harry Potter proceeded to describe the Parkinsons and Montagues and Boles with a calmly cutting accuracy that Draco wouldn’t have dared <em>think</em> to himself in case there was a Legilimens around, it was <em>beyond</em> insult, they would <em>kill</em> Harry if they ever heard …</p>

    <p>‘To sum up,’ Harry finished, ‘they don’t have any power themselves. They don’t have any wealth themselves. If they didn’t have Muggleborns to hate, if all the Muggleborns vanished the way they say they <em>want</em>, they’d wake up one morning and find they had <em>nothing.</em> But so long as they can say purebloods are superior, they can feel superior themselves, they can feel like part of the master class. Even though your father would never dream of inviting them to dinner, even though there’s not one Galleon in their vaults, even if they did worse on their OWLs than the worst Muggleborn in Hogwarts. Even if they can’t cast the Patronus Charm any more. Everything is the Muggleborns’ fault to them, they have someone besides themselves to blame for their own failures, and that makes them even weaker. That’s what Slytherin House is becoming, <em>pathetic,</em> and the root of the problem is hating Muggleborns.’</p>

    <p>‘Salazar Slytherin himself said that mudbloods needed to be cast out! That they were weakening our blood&#160;–’ Draco’s voice had risen to a shout.</p>

    <p>‘<i>Salazar was wrong as a question of simple fact!</i> You <em>know</em> that, Draco! And that <em>hatred</em> is poisoning your whole House, you couldn’t cast the Patronus Charm using a thought like that!’</p>

    <p>‘Then why could <i>Salazar Slytherin</i> cast the Patronus Charm?’</p>

    <p>Harry was wiping sweat from his forehead. ‘Because things have <em>changed</em> between then and now! Listen, Draco, three hundred years ago you could find great scientists, as great as Salazar in their own way, who would have told you that some other Muggles were inferior because of their skin colour&#160;–’</p>

    <p><i>‘Skin colour?’</i> said Draco.</p>

    <p>‘I know, skin colour instead of anything important like blood purity, isn’t it ridiculous? But then something in the world changed, and <em>now</em> you can’t find any great scientists who still think skin colour should matter, only saddos like the ones I told you about. Salazar Slytherin made the mistake when everyone else was making it, because he grew up believing it, not because he was <i>desperate for someone to hate.</i> There were a few people who did better than everyone else around them, and <em>they</em> were exceptionally good. But the ones who just accepted what everyone else thought weren’t <em>exceptionally</em> evil. The sad fact is that most people just don’t notice a moral issue at all unless someone else is pointing it out to them; and once they’re as old as Salazar was when he met Godric, they’ve lost the ability to change their minds. Only <em>then</em> Hogwarts was built, and Hogwarts started sending acceptance letters to Muggleborns like Godric insisted, and more and more people began to notice that Muggleborns <em>weren’t</em> any different. Now it’s a big political issue instead of something that everyone just believes without thinking about it. And the <em>correct</em> answer is that Muggleborns <em>aren’t</em> any weaker than purebloods. So <em>now</em> the people who end up siding with what Salazar once believed, are either people who grew up in very closed pureblood environments like you, <em>or</em> people who are so pathetic themselves that they’re desperate for someone to feel superior to, people who love to hate.’</p>

    <p>‘That doesn’t … that doesn’t sound right …’ Draco’s voice said. His ears listened, and wondered that he couldn’t come up with anything better to say.</p>

    <p>‘It doesn’t? Draco, you <em>know</em> now there’s nothing wrong with Hermione Granger. You had trouble dropping her off a roof, I hear. Even though you knew she’d taken a Feather-Falling Potion, even though you knew she was safe. What sort of person do you think wants to <em>kill</em> her, not for any wrong she did to them, just because she’s a Muggleborn? Even though she’s, she’s just a young girl who would help them with their homework in a second, if they ever asked her,’ Harry’s voice broke, ‘what sort of person wants her to <em>die?</em>’</p>

    <p class="thought">Father –</p>

    <p>Draco felt split in two, he seemed to be having a problem with dual vision, <i>Granger is a mudblood, she should die</i> and a girl hanging from his hand on the rooftop, like seeing double, seeing double –</p>

    <p>‘And anyone who <i>doesn’t</i> want Hermione Granger to die, won’t want to hang around the sort of people who <em>do!</em> That’s all people think Slytherin <em>is</em> now, not clever planning, not trying to achieve greatness, just hating Muggleborns! I paid Morag a Sickle to ask Padma why she hadn’t gone to Slytherin, we both know she got the option. And Morag told me that Padma just gave her a <em>look</em> and said that she wasn’t Pansy Parkinson. You see? The <em>best</em> students with the virtues of more than one House, the students with <i>choices,</i> they go under the Hat thinking <i>anywhere but Slytherin,</i> and someone like Padma ends up in Ravenclaw. And … I think the Sorting Hat tries to maintain a balance in the Sorting, so it fills out the ranks of Slytherin with anyone who <em>isn’t</em> repelled by all the hatred. So instead of Padma Patil, Slytherin gets Pansy Parkinson. She’s not very cunning, and she’s not very ambitious, but she’s the sort of person who doesn’t mind what Slytherin is turning into. And the more Padmas go to Ravenclaw and the more Pansies go to Slytherin, the more the process accelerates. <i>It’s destroying Slytherin House, Draco!</i>’</p>

    <p>It had a ring of awful truth, Padma <em>had</em> belonged in Slytherin … and instead Slytherin got Pansy … Father rallied lesser families like the Parkinsons because they were convenient sources of support, but Father hadn’t realized the <em>consequences</em> of associating Slytherin’s name with them …</p>

    <p>‘I can’t&#160;–’ Draco said, but he wasn’t even sure what he couldn’t do – ‘What do you <em>want</em> from me?’</p>

    <p>‘I’m not sure how to heal Slytherin House,’ Harry said slowly. ‘But I know it’s something you and I will end up having to do. It took centuries for science to dawn over the Muggle world, it only happened slowly, but the stronger science got, the further that sort of hatred retreated.’ Harry’s voice was quiet, now. ‘I don’t know exactly why it worked that way, but that’s how it happened historically. As though there’s something in science like the shine of the Patronus Charm, driving back all sorts of darkness and madness, not right away, but it seems to follow wherever science goes. The Enlightenment, that was what it was called in the Muggle world. It has something to do with seeking the truth, I think … with being able to change your mind from what you grew up believing … with thinking <em>logically,</em> realizing that there’s no <em>reason</em> to hate someone because their skin is a different colour, just like there’s no reason to hate Hermione Granger … or maybe there’s something to it that even I don’t understand. But the Enlightenment is something that you and I belong to now, both of us. Fixing Slytherin House is just one of the things we have to do.’</p>

    <p>‘Let me think,’ Draco said, his voice coming out in something of a croak, ‘please,’ and he rested his head in his hands, and thought.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Draco thought for a while, with his palms over his eyes to shut out the world, no sound but his and Harry’s breathing. All the persuasive reasonableness of what Harry said, the evident grains of truth that it contained; and against that, the obvious, the perfectly and entirely obvious hypothesis about what was <em>really</em> going on …</p>

    <p>After a time, Draco finally raised his head.</p>

    <p>‘It sounds right,’ Draco said quietly.</p>

    <p>A huge smile broke out on Harry’s face.</p>

    <p>‘So,’ Draco continued, ‘is this where you bring me to Dumbledore, to make it official?’</p>

    <p>He kept his voice very casual as he said it.</p>

    <p>‘Oh, yeah,’ Harry said. ‘That was the thing I was going to ask you about, actually&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Draco’s blood froze in his veins, froze solid and shattered –</p>

    <p>‘Professor Quirrell said something to me that got me thinking, and, well, no matter how you answer this question, I’m already stupid for having not asked you a lot earlier. Everyone in Gryffindor thinks Dumbledore is a saint, the Hufflepuffs think he’s crazy, the Ravenclaws are all proud of themselves for having worked out that he’s only pretending to be crazy, but I never asked anyone in Slytherin. I’m supposed to know better than to make that sort of mistake. But if even <em>you</em> think Dumbledore’s okay to conspire with on fixing Slytherin House, I guess I didn’t miss anything important.’</p>

    <p>…</p>

    <p>…</p>

    <p>…</p>

    <p>‘You know,’ Draco said, his voice remarkably calm, all things considered, ‘every time I wonder if you do things like this just to annoy me, I tell myself that it <i>has</i> to be accidental, <i>no one</i> could possibly do this sort of thing on purpose even if they tried until blood trickled out of their ears. That’s the only reason I’m not going to strangle you now.’</p>

    <p>‘Huh?’</p>

    <p>And then strangle <em>himself,</em> because Harry <em>had</em> grown up with Muggles, and then Dumbledore had smoothly diverted him from Slytherin to Ravenclaw, so it was perfectly plausible that Harry might <em>not</em> know anything, and Draco had never thought to <i>tell him.</i></p>

    <p>Or else Harry had guessed that Draco wouldn’t join up with Dumbledore so readily, and this itself was just the next step of Dumbledore’s plan …</p>

    <p>But if Harry <em>really</em> didn’t know about Dumbledore, then warning him had to take precedence over <em>everything.</em></p>

    <p>‘All right,’ Draco said, after he’d had a chance to organize his thoughts. ‘I don’t know where to start, so I’ll just start somewhere.’ Draco drew a deep breath. This was going to take a while. ‘Dumbledore murdered his little sister, and got away with it because his brother wouldn’t testify against him&#160;–’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Harry listened with increasing worry and dismay. Harry had been prepared, he’d thought, to take the blood purist side of the story with a grain of salt. The trouble was that even after you added an enormous amount of salt, it <em>still</em> didn’t sound good.</p>

    <p>Dumbledore’s father had been convicted of using Unforgivable Curses on children, and died in Azkaban. That was no sin of Dumbledore’s, but it would be a matter of public record. Harry could check that part, and see whether all of this had been made up out of thin air by the blood purists.</p>

    <p>Dumbledore’s mother had died mysteriously, shortly before his younger sister died in what the Aurors had ruled to be murder. Supposedly that sister had been brutalized by Muggles and never spoken again after that; which, Draco pointed out, sounded remarkably like a botched Obliviation.</p>

    <p>After Harry’s first few interruptions, Draco had seemed to pick up on the general principle, and was now presenting the observations first and the inferences afterwards.</p>

    <p>‘– so you don’t have to take my word for it,’ said Draco, ‘you can <em>see</em> it, right? Anyone in Slytherin can. Dumbledore waited to fight his duel with Grindelwald until the exact moment when it would look best for Dumbledore, <em>after</em> Grindelwald had ruined most of Europe and built up a reputation as the most terrible Dark Wizard in history, and just when Grindelwald had lost the gold and blood sacrifices he was getting from his Muggle pawns and was about to start heading downhill. If Dumbledore was really the noble wizard he pretended to be, he’d have fought Grindelwald long before that. Dumbledore probably <em>wanted</em> Europe ruined, it was probably part of their plan together, he only attacked Grindelwald after his puppet <em>failed</em> him. And that big flashy duel wasn’t real, there’s no way two wizards would be so exactly matched that they’d fight for twenty whole hours until one of them fell over from exhaustion, that was just Dumbledore making it look more spectacular.’ Here Draco’s voice became more indignant. ‘And that got Dumbledore made <i>Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot!</i> The Line of Merlin Unbroken, corrupted after fifteen hundred years! And <em>then</em> he became Supreme Mugwump on top of that, and he <em>already</em> had Hogwarts to use as an invincible fortress – Headmaster <em>and</em> Chief Warlock <em>and</em> Supreme Mugwump, no normal person would try to do all that at once, <i>how can anyone not see that Dumbledore’s trying to take over the world?</i>’</p>

    <p>‘Pause,’ Harry said, and closed his eyes to think.</p>

    <p>It wasn’t any worse than what you would have heard about the West in Stalin’s Russia, and none of that would have been true. Though the blood purists wouldn’t be able to get away with making stuff up entirely … or would they? The <i>Daily Prophet</i> had shown a pronounced tendency to make stuff up … but then again, when they stuck out their neck too far on the Weasley betrothal, they <em>had</em> been called on it and they <em>had</em> been embarrassed …</p>

    <p>Harry opened his eyes, and saw that Draco was watching him with a steady, waiting gaze.</p>

    <p>‘So when you asked me if it was time to join up with Dumbledore, that was just a test.’</p>

    <p>Draco nodded.</p>

    <p>‘And before that, when you said it sounded right&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘It <i>sounds</i> right,’ said Draco. ‘But I don’t know if I can trust you. Are you going to complain about my <em>testing</em> you, Mr&#160;Potter? Are you going to say that I <i>fooled</i> you? That I <i>led you on?</i>’</p>

    <p>Harry knew he should smile like a good sport, but he couldn’t really, it was too much of a disappointment.</p>

    <p>‘You’re right, it’s fair, I can’t complain,’ Harry said instead. ‘So what about He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named? Not as bad as he was made out to be?’</p>

    <p>Draco looked bitter, at that. ‘So you think it’s all just making Father’s side look good and Dumbledore’s side look bad, and that I believe it all myself just because Father told me.’</p>

    <p>‘It’s a possibility I’m considering,’ Harry said evenly.</p>

    <p>Draco’s voice was low and intense. ‘They <i>knew</i>. My father knew, his friends knew. They <i>knew</i> the Dark Lord was evil. <i>But he was the only chance anyone had against Dumbledore!</i> The only wizard anywhere who was powerful enough to fight him! Some of the other Death Eaters were truly evil too, like Bellatrix Black – Father isn’t like that – but Father and his friends <em>had</em> to do it, Harry, they <em>had</em> to, Dumbledore was taking over everything, the Dark Lord was the only hope anyone had left!’</p>

    <p>Draco was staring hard at Harry. Harry met the gaze, trying to think. Nobody ever thought of themselves as the villain of their own story – maybe Lord Voldemort did, maybe Bellatrix did, but Draco certainly didn’t. That the Death Eaters were bad guys was not in question. The question was whether they were <i>the</i> bad guys; whether there was <i>one</i> villain in the story, or <i>two …</i></p>

    <p>‘You’re not convinced,’ Draco said. He looked worried, and a little angry. Which didn’t surprise Harry. He was pretty sure Draco himself believed all this.</p>

    <p>‘<em>Should</em> I be convinced?’ Harry said. He didn’t look away. ‘Just because you believe it? Are you a strong enough rationalist now that your belief is strong evidence to me, because you’d be very unlikely to believe it if it weren’t true? When I met you, you weren’t that strong. Everything you told me, did you rethink it after you awakened as a scientist, or is it just something you grew up believing? Can you look me in the eyes and swear to me upon the honour of House Malfoy that if there’s one untruth buried in what you said, one thing that got added on just to make Dumbledore look a little worse, you would have noticed?’</p>

    <p>Draco started to open his mouth, and Harry said, ‘Don’t. Don’t stain the honour of House Malfoy. You’re <em>not</em> that strong yet, and you should know it. Listen, Draco, I’ve started to notice some worrying things myself. But there’s nothing <em>definite,</em> nothing <em>certain,</em> it’s all just deductions and hypotheses and untrustworthy witnesses … And there’s nothing certain in your story, either. Dumbledore might’ve had some other good reason not to fight Grindelwald years earlier – though it <em>would</em> have to be a pretty good excuse, especially considering what was happening on the Muggle side of things … but still. Is there one clearly evil thing that Dumbledore’s done for <em>certain,</em> so I don’t have to wonder?’</p>

    <p>Draco’s breathing was harsh. ‘All right,’ Draco said in an uneven voice, ‘I’ll tell you what Dumbledore did.’ From Draco’s robes came a wand, and Draco said ‘Quietus’, then ‘Quietus’ again, but he got the pronunciation wrong a second time, and finally Harry took out his own wand and did it.</p>

    <p>‘There,’ said Draco hoarsely, ‘once upon a time there, there was a girl, and her name was Narcissa, and she was the prettiest, the smartest, the most cunning girl that was ever Sorted into Slytherin, and my father loved her, and they married, and she wasn’t a Death Eater, she wasn’t a fighter, <i>all she ever did was love Father –</i>’ Draco stopped there, because he was crying.</p>

    <p>Harry felt sick to his stomach. Draco had never talked about his <em>mother</em>, not once, he should have noticed that earlier. ‘She … got in the way of a curse?’</p>

    <p>Draco’s voice came out in a scream. <i>‘Dumbledore burned her to death in her own bedroom!’</i></p>

    <hr/>

    <p>In a classroom filled with soft silver light, one boy is staring at another boy, who is sobbing, wiping frantically at his eyes with the sleeves of his robes.</p>

    <p>It was hard for Harry to stay balanced, to keep withholding judgement, it was too emotional, there was something that either wanted to start tears from his own eyes in sympathy with Draco, or <em>know</em> that it wasn’t true …</p>

    <p class="thought">Dumbledore burned her to death in her own bedroom!</p>

    <p>That …</p>

    <p>… didn’t sound like Dumbledore’s style …</p>

    <p>… but you could only think that thought so many times, before you started to wonder about the trustworthiness of that whole <i class="q">style</i> concept.</p>

    <p>‘It, it must have hurt horribly,’ Draco said, his voice shaking, ‘Father never talks about it at all, you don’t ever talk about it in front of him, but Mr&#160;Macnair told me, there were scorch marks all over the bedroom, from how Mother must have struggled while Dumbledore <i>burned her alive</i>. That is the debt Dumbledore owes to House Malfoy and <i>we will have his life for it!</i>’</p>

    <p>‘Draco,’ Harry said, he let all of the hoarseness into his own voice, it would be <em>wrong</em> to sound calm, ‘I’m sorry, I’m so sorry for asking, but I <em>have</em> to know, <em>how</em> do you know it was Dumble–’</p>

    <p>‘Dumbledore <em>said</em> he did it, he told Father it was a <em>warning!</em> And Father couldn’t testify under Veritaserum because he was an Occlumens, he couldn’t even get Dumbledore put on trial, Father’s own allies didn’t believe him after Dumbledore just denied everything in public, but we know, the Death Eaters know, Father wouldn’t have any reason to lie about that, Father would want us to take revenge on the <i>right person,</i> can’t you see that Harry?’ Draco’s voice was wild.</p>

    <p class="thought">Unless Lucius did it himself, of course, and found it more convenient to blame Dumbledore.</p>

    <p>Although … it also didn’t seem like <em>Lucius’s</em> style. And if he <em>had</em> murdered Narcissa, it would have been smarter to pin the blame on an easier victim instead of losing political capital and credibility by going after Dumbledore …</p>

    <p>In time, Draco stopped crying, and looked at Harry. <em>‘Well?’</em> said Draco, sounding like he wanted to spit the words. ‘Is that <em>evil</em> enough for you, Mr&#160;Potter?’</p>

    <p>Harry looked down at where his arms rested on the back of his chair. He couldn’t meet Draco’s eyes any more, the pain in them was too raw. ‘I wasn’t expecting to hear that,’ Harry said softly. ‘I don’t know what to think any more.’</p>

    <p>‘You <i>don’t know?</i>’ Draco’s voice rose to a shriek, and he stood up abruptly from his desk –</p>

    <p>‘I remembered the Dark Lord killing my parents,’ Harry said. ‘When I went in front of the Dementor the first time, that was what I remembered, the worst memory. Even though it was so long ago. I heard them dying. My mother begged the Dark Lord not to kill me, <i>not Harry, please no, take me, kill me instead!</i> That’s what she said. And the Dark Lord mocked her, and laughed. Then, I remember, the flash of green light&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Harry looked up at Draco.</p>

    <p>‘So we could fight,’ Harry said, ‘we could just keep on with the same fight. You could tell me that it was right for my mother to die, because she was the wife of James, who killed a Death Eater. But bad for <i>your</i> mother to die, because <em>she</em> was innocent. And I could tell you that it was right for your mother to die, that Dumbledore must have had some <em>reason</em> that made it <em>okay</em> to burn her alive in her own bedroom; but bad for <em>my</em> mother to die. But you know, Draco, either way, wouldn’t it be <em>obvious</em> that we were just being biased? Because the rule that says that it’s wrong to kill innocent people, that rule can’t switch on for my mother and off for yours, and it can’t switch on for your mother and off for mine. If you tell me that Lily was an enemy of the Death Eaters and it’s right to kill your enemies, then the same rule says that Dumbledore was right to kill Narcissa, since she was <em>his</em> enemy.’ Harry’s voice went hoarse. ‘So if the two of us are going to agree on anything, it’s going to be that <i>neither</i> of their deaths were right and that <i>no one’s</i> mother should die any more.’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>The fury boiling inside Draco was so great that he could barely stop himself from storming out of the room; all that halted him was the recognition of a critical moment; and a small remnant of friendship, a tiny flash of sympathy, for he had forgotten, he’d <em>forgotten,</em> that Harry’s mother <em>and</em> father were dead by the Dark Lord’s hand.</p>

    <p>The silence stretched.</p>

    <p>‘You can talk,’ Harry said, ‘Draco, talk to me, I won’t get angry – are you thinking, I don’t know, that Narcissa dying was much worse than Lily dying? That it’s wrong for me even to make the comparison?’</p>

    <p>‘I guess I was stupid too,’ Draco said. ‘All this time, all this time I forgot that you must hate the Death Eaters for killing your parents, hate Death Eaters the way I hate Dumbledore.’ And Harry had never said anything, never reacted when Draco talked about Death Eaters, kept it <em>hidden</em> – Draco was a fool.</p>

    <p>‘No,’ Harry said. ‘It’s not – it’s not like that, Draco, I, I don’t even know how to explain to you, except to say that a thought like that, wouldn’t,’ Harry’s voice choked, ‘you wouldn’t ever be able to use it, to cast the Patronus Charm …’</p>

    <p>Draco felt a sudden wrench in his heart, unwanted but he felt it. ‘Are you pretending you’re just going to <em>forget</em> about your own parents? Are you saying I should just <em>forget</em> about Mother?’</p>

    <p>‘So you and I <i>have</i> to be enemies then?’ Now Harry’s voice was growing equally wild. ‘What have <i>we</i> ever done to <i>each other</i> that means we have to be enemies? I refuse to be trapped like that! Justice can’t mean that <i>both</i> of us should attack <i>each other,</i> it doesn’t make sense!’ Harry stopped, took a deep breath, ran his fingers back through the deliberate mess of his hair – the fingers came away sweaty, Draco could see it. ‘Draco, listen, we can’t expect to meet on everything right away, you and I. So I won’t ask you to say that the Dark Lord was <em>wrong</em> to kill my mother, just say that it was … <em>sad</em>. We won’t talk about whether or not it was <em>necessary</em>, whether it was <em>justified</em>. I’ll just ask you to say that it was sad that it happened, that my mother’s life was valuable too, you’ll just say that for now. And I’ll say it was sad that Narcissa died, because her life was also worth something. We can’t expect to agree on everything right away, but if we start out by saying that every life is precious, that it’s sad when <em>anyone</em> dies, then I know we’ll meet someday. That’s what I want you to say. Not who was right. Not who was wrong. Just that it was sad when your mother died, and sad when my mother died, and it would be sad if Hermione Granger died, every life is precious, can we agree on that and let the rest go by for now, is it enough if we just agree on that? Can we, Draco? That seems … more like a thought someone could use to cast the Patronus Charm.’</p>

    <p>There were tears in Harry’s eyes.</p>

    <p>And Draco was getting angry again. ‘Dumbledore <em>killed</em> Mother, it’s not enough to just say it’s <em>sad!</em> I don’t understand what you think <em>you</em> have to do, but the Malfoys <em>have</em> to take revenge!’ Not avenging the deaths of family went <em>beyond</em> weakness, beyond dishonour, you might as well not <em>exist.</em></p>

    <p>‘I’m not arguing with that,’ Harry said quietly. ‘But will you say that Lily Potter’s death was sad? Just say that one thing?’</p>

    <p>‘That’s …’ Draco was having difficulty finding words again. ‘I know, I know how you feel, but don’t you see Harry, even if I just say that Lily Potter’s death was <em>sad,</em> that’s <em>already</em> going against the Death Eaters!’</p>

    <p>‘Draco, you’ve <em>got</em> to be able to say the Death Eaters were wrong about some things! You <em>have</em> to, you can’t progress as a scientist otherwise, there’ll be a roadblock in your way, an authority you can’t contradict. Not every change is an improvement, but every improvement is a change, you can’t do anything <em>better</em> unless you can manage to do it <em>differently</em>, <i>you’ve got to let yourself do better than other people!</i> Even your father, Draco, even him. You’ve got to be able to point to something your father did and say it was mistaken, because he wasn’t <em>perfect</em>, and if you can’t say that, you can’t do better.’</p>

    <p>Father had warned him, every night before he went to sleep for a month before he went to Hogwarts, that there would be people with this goal.</p>

    <p>‘You’re trying to break me loose of Father.’</p>

    <p>‘Trying to break a <em>part</em> of you loose,’ said Harry. ‘Trying to let you fix some things your father got mistaken. Trying to let you <i>do better</i>. But not … trying to break your <em>Patronus!</em>’ Harry’s voice got softer. ‘I wouldn’t want to break something bright like that. Who knows, fixing Slytherin House might need <em>that</em>, too …’</p>

    <p>It was getting to Draco, that was the thing, despite everything it was getting to him, you had to be really careful around Harry because his arguments sounded so convincing <i>even when he was wrong.</i> ‘And what you’re <em>not</em> admitting is that Dumbledore told you that you could avenge your parents’ deaths by taking Lord Malfoy’s son from him&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘<em>No.</em> No. That part’s just wrong.’ Harry took a deep breath. ‘I did not know who Dumbledore was, or who the Dark Lord was, or who the Death Eaters were, or how my parents died, until three days before I came to Hogwarts. The day you and I first met in the clothes shop, that was the day I learned. And Dumbledore doesn’t even <em>like</em> Muggle science, or he says he doesn’t, I got a chance to probe him on it once. The thought of taking revenge on the Death Eaters through you has <em>never</em> crossed my mind, not even <em>once</em> until now. I didn’t know who the Malfoys were when I met you in the clothes shop, and then I <em>liked</em> you.’</p>

    <p>There was a long silence.</p>

    <p>‘I wish I could trust you,’ Draco said. His voice was shaking. ‘If I could just <em>know</em> you were telling the truth, everything would be so much simpler&#160;–’</p>

    <p>And then suddenly it came to Draco.</p>

    <p>The way to know whether Harry Potter really meant everything he said, about wanting to fix Slytherin House, about being sad that Mother had died.</p>

    <p>It would be illegal, and since he’d have to do it without Father’s help, it would be <em>dangerous</em>, he couldn’t even trust Harry Potter to <em>help,</em> but …</p>

    <p>‘All right,’ Draco said. ‘I’ve thought of a definitive experiment.’</p>

    <p>‘What is it?’</p>

    <p>‘I want to give you a drop of Veritaserum,’ Draco said. ‘Just one drop, so you can’t lie, but not enough to <em>make</em> you answer anything. I don’t know where I’ll get it, but I’ll make <em>certain</em> it’s safe&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Um,’ Harry said. There was a helpless look on his face. ‘Draco, um&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Don’t say it,’ Draco said. His voice was firm and calm. ‘If you say no, that’s my experimental result right there.’</p>

    <p>‘Draco, I’m an Occlumens&#160;–’</p>

    <p><i>‘Oh that is such a lie – ’</i></p>

    <p>‘I was trained by Mr&#160;Bester. Professor Quirrell set it up. Look, Draco, I’ll <em>take</em> one drop of Veritaserum if you can get it, I’m just <em>warning</em> you that I’m an Occlumens. Not a perfect Occlumens, but Mr&#160;Bester said I was putting up a complete block, and I could probably beat Veritaserum.’</p>

    <p><i>‘You’re in your first year at Hogwarts! That’s just crazy!’</i></p>

    <p>‘Know a Legilimens you can trust? I’ll be happy to demonstrate – look, Draco, I’m sorry, but doesn’t the fact that I <em>told</em> you count for something? I <em>could</em> have just let you do it, you know.’</p>

    <p><i>‘<span class="shout">WHY?</span> Why are you always like this, Harry? Why do you have to mess everything up even when it’s <span class="shout">Impossible</span>? And stop smiling, this isn’t funny!’</i></p>

    <p>‘I’m sorry, I’m sorry, I <em>know</em> it’s not funny, I&#160;–’</p>

    <p>It took a while for Draco to get himself under control.</p>

    <p>But Harry was right. Harry <em>could</em> have just let Draco administer the Veritaserum. <em>If</em> he really was an Occlumens … Draco didn’t know who he could ask to try Legilimency, but he could at least ask Professor Quirrell if it was true … Could Draco trust <i>Professor Quirrell?</i> Maybe Professor Quirrell would just say anything Harry asked him to.</p>

    <p>Then Draco remembered the other thing Harry had told him to ask Professor Quirrell, and thought of a different test.</p>

    <p>‘You <em>know</em>,’ said Draco. ‘You <em>know</em> what it costs me, if I agree that the poison in Slytherin’s House is hating Muggleborns, and say that Lily Potter’s death was sad. And that’s <i>part of your plan,</i> don’t tell me it’s not.’</p>

    <p>Harry said nothing, which was wise of him.</p>

    <p>‘There’s something I want from you in return,’ said Draco. ‘And before then, an experimental test I want to try&#160;–’</p>

    <hr/>


</div>
</body>
</html>