<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
  <h1>Time Pressure</h1>

  <div class="calibre1">
    <p>April 16th, 1992.</p>

    <p>12:07pm.</p>

    <p>Lunchtime.</p>

    <p>Harry stomped over to the mostly-deserted Gryffindor table, determining at a glance that lunch today was breen and Roopo balls. The ambient conversation, Harry could likewise hear, was Quidditch-related; an auditory environment which rated somewhat worse than the sound of rusty chainsaws, but better than what the Ravenclaw table was still <em>blithering</em> about Hermione. Gryffindor House, at least, had started out less sympathetic to Draco Malfoy and had more political incentive to wish that everyone would just forget certain unfortunate facts; and if that wasn’t the right reason for silence, it was at least silence. Dean and Seamus and Lavender were all gone for the holidays, but at least that left …</p>

    <p>‘What was all that ruckus at the Head Table?’ Harry said to the Weasley-twin group-mind, as he began to serve himself his own plate. ‘It looked like it was just ending as I walked in.’</p>

    <p>‘Our beloved, but clumsy Professor Trelawney&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Seems to have gone and dropped an entire soup tureen on herself&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Not to mention Mr&#160;Hagrid.’</p>

    <p>A quick glance at the Head Table confirmed that the Divination Professor was waving her wand frantically as the half-Giant dabbed at his clothes. Nobody else seemed to be paying much attention, even Professor McGonagall. Professor Flitwick was standing on his chair as usual, the Headmaster seemed to be absent again (he’d been gone most days of the holiday), Professors Sprout and Sinistra and Vector were eating in their usual grouping, and –</p>

    <p>‘You know,’ Harry said, as he turned his head away to stare at the ceiling illusion of a clear blue sky, ‘that still creeps me out sometimes.’</p>

    <p>‘What does?’ said Fred or George.</p>

    <p>The powerful and enigmatic Defence Professor was <i class="q">resting</i> or whatever-the-heck-was-wrong-with-him, his hands making fumbling, hesitant grabs at a chicken-leg that seemed to be eluding him on the plate.</p>

    <p>‘Eh, nothing,’ said Harry. ‘I’m not quite used to Hogwarts, yet.’</p>

    <p>Harry continued to eat in moderate silence, as various Weasleys discussed some bizarre mind-affecting substance called Chudley Cannons.</p>

    <p>‘What sort of deep mysterious thoughts are you thinking?’ said a young-looking witch with short hair, sitting nearby. ‘I mean, just curious. I’m Brienne, by the way.’ She was gazing at him with one of those looks which Harry had firmly decided to just ignore until he was older.</p>

    <p>‘So,’ Harry said, ‘you know those really simple Artificial Intelligence programs like ELIZA that are programmed to use words in syntactic English sentences only they don’t contain any understanding of what the words mean?’</p>

    <p>‘Of course,’ the witch said. ‘I have a dozen of them in my trunk.’</p>

    <p>‘Well, I’m pretty sure my understanding of girls is somewhere around that level.’</p>

    <p>A sudden hush fell.</p>

    <p>It took a few seconds for Harry to realize that, no, the entire Great Hall wasn’t staring at <em>him,</em> and then Harry twisted his head around to look.</p>

    <p>The figure who’d just staggered into the Great Hall appeared to be Mr&#160;Filch, Hogwarts’s token hallway monitor; who, along with his predatory cat Mrs&#160;Norris, constituted a low-level random encounter whom Harry often breezed past wearing his epic-level Deathly Hallow. (Harry had once consulted the Weasley twins about pulling some sort of prank on this deserving target, whereupon Fred or George had quietly pointed out that Mr&#160;Filch was never seen to use a wand, which was odd, really, considering how many spells would be useful in that position, and it made you wonder why Dumbledore had given the man a position at Hogwarts, and Harry had shut up.)</p>

    <p>Right now Mr&#160;Filch’s brown clothing was disarrayed and soaked with sweat, his shoulders were visibly heaving as he breathed, and his ever-present cat was missing.</p>

    <p>‘Troll&#160;–’ gasped Mr&#160;Filch. ‘In the dungeons&#160;–’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Minerva McGonagall stood up from the Head Table so quickly that her chair fell to the ground behind her.</p>

    <p><em>‘Argus!’</em> she cried. ‘What happened to you?’</p>

    <p>Argus Filch staggered forward from the huge doors, his upper body streaked and dotted with small crimson dots as though someone had spattered steak sauce over his face. ‘Troll – grey – twice as tall as me – it – it&#160;–’ Argus Filch covered his face with his hands. ‘It ate Mrs&#160;Norris – ate her all up, in just one bite&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Minerva felt a stab of dismay in her other self, she hadn’t liked the other cat very much but the two of them had still been felines.</p>

    <p>An uproar started from the Great Hall. Severus stood up from the Head Table, somehow doing so without drawing any visible attention to himself, and strode out the huge doors without another word.</p>

    <p><i>Of course,</i> Minerva thought, <i>the third-floor corridor – this could be a distraction –</i></p>

    <p>She mentally consigned all such matters to Severus’s care, drew her wand, raised it high, and let out five sharp cracks of purple fire.</p>

    <p>There was stunned silence but for Argus’s broken sobs.</p>

    <p>‘It seems we have a dangerous creature loose in Hogwarts,’ she said to the faculty at the Head Table. ‘I will ask you all to aid in searching the halls.’ Then she turned to the stunned and watching students, and raised her voice. <i>‘Prefects – lead your houses back to the dormitories immediately!’</i></p>

    <p>Percy Weasley leaped up from the Gryffindor table. ‘Follow me!’ he said in a high voice. ‘Stick together, first-years! No, not <em>you</em>&#160;–’ but by that time the other prefects were raising their own voices as a renewed babble sprang up.</p>

    <p>Then a clear, cool voice spoke under the sudden rush of sound.</p>

    <p>‘Deputy Headmistress.’</p>

    <p>She turned.</p>

    <p>The Defence Professor was calmly wiping off his hands on a napkin as he stood up from the Head Table. ‘With respect,’ said the man of unknown identity, ‘you are not expert in battle tactics, madam. In this situation, it would be wiser to&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘I do apologize, Professor,’ said Professor McGonagall, as she turned toward the great doors. Filius and Pomona had already risen to follow her, with Rubeus Hagrid towering over all of them as the half-giant stood up. She’d been through similar experiences too many times, at this point. ‘Sad experience has taught me that on occasions such as these, it is not a good time to take any advice the current Defence Professor may offer. Indeed, I think it wise that the two of us search for the troll together, so that no suspicions may be cast upon you for any untoward events which occur during that time.’</p>

    <p>Without any hesitation, the Defence Professor swung smoothly on the Gryffindor table and clapped his hands with a sound like a floor cracking through.</p>

    <p>‘Michelle Morgan of House Gryffindor, second in command of Pinnini’s Army,’ the Defence Professor said calmly into the resulting quiet. ‘Please advise your Head of House.’</p>

    <p>Michelle Morgan climbed up onto her bench and spoke, the tiny witch sounding far more confident than Minerva remembered her being at the start of the year. ‘Students walking through the hallways would be spread out and impossible to defend. All students are to remain in the Great Hall and form a cluster in the centre … <em>not</em> surrounded by tables, a troll would jump right over tables … with the perimeter defended by seventh-year students. From the armies only, no matter how good they are at <em>duelling,</em> so they don’t get in each other’s lines of fire.’ Michelle hesitated. ‘I’m sorry, Mr&#160;Hagrid, but – it wouldn’t be safe for you, you should stay behind with the students. And Professor Trelawney shouldn’t confront a troll on her own either,’ Michelle sounded much less apologetic about this part, ‘but if she’s paired with Professor Quirrell the two of them together can form an additional trusted and effective battle unit. That concludes my analysis, Professor.’</p>

    <p>‘Adequate, for being put on the spot,’ the Defence Professor said. ‘Twenty Quirrell points to you. But you neglect the still simpler point that <em>home</em> does not mean <em>safe,</em> and a troll is strong enough to rip a portrait door off its hinges&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Enough,’ Minerva snapped. ‘Thank you, Miss&#160;Morgan.’ She looked to the watching tables. ‘Students, you will do as she said.’ Turned back to the Head Table. ‘Professor Trelawney, you will accompany the Defence Professor&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Ah,’ Sybill said falteringly. Beneath her overdone make-up and heap of shawls, the woman looked rather pale. ‘I’m afraid – I’m not entirely well today – indeed, I feel rather faint&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘You won’t have to fight the troll,’ Minerva said sharply, her patience taxed as usual when dealing with the woman. ‘Just stay with the Defence Professor and do not let him out of your sight for an instant, you must be able to testify afterwards that you were with him at all times.’ She turned to Rubeus. ‘Rubeus, I am leaving you in charge here. Keep them safe.’ The huge man straightened at this, losing his glum look and nodding proudly to her.</p>

    <p>Then Minerva looked at the students, and raised her voice. ‘It should go entirely without saying that anyone leaving the Great Hall <i>for any reason,</i> will be expelled. No excuses will be accepted. Am I understood?’</p>

    <p>The Weasley twins, with whom she’d been making direct eye contact, nodded respectfully.</p>

    <p>She turned without another word and marched off toward the hall doors with the other Professors behind her.</p>

    <p>On the far side of the room, unnoticed on the wall, a clock showed 12:14pm.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>… and he still didn’t realize.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>As Harry stared with narrowed eyes at where the Professors had gone out, wondering what was actually going on and what it meant, as the students came together into a more defensible mass and wands flicked to levitate the tables out of their way, Harry still didn’t realize.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>‘Shouldn’t the Professors <em>all</em> have formed up into pairs?’ said an older Gryffindor student whose name Harry didn’t know. ‘I mean – it’d be slower, but it’d be safer, I think&#160;–’</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>Someone else replied to this, raising her voice, but Harry didn’t catch much of it, the gist was that mountain trolls were highly magic-resistant and incredibly strong and could regenerate but they were still <em>noisy</em> so if you heard them coming, it shouldn’t be that hard for a Hogwarts Professor to wrap them up in Vadim’s Unbreakable something something.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>And Harry still didn’t realize.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>The crowd noises were subdued, people were talking in low voices to each other while they glanced around, listening for the sound of a crashing door or an angry roar.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>Some students were speculating in whispers about what the Defence Professor could possibly be trying to achieve by smuggling in a troll, and whether he was angry that Professor McGonagall had caught on to his attempted distraction, and what it was a distraction <em>from.</em></p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>And the thought still didn’t come to Harry, not until after all the students had formed a mass of perhaps a hundred bodies patrolled by proudly grim-looking seventh-year-students with their wands all pointed outward, and somebody suggested doing a headcount, and someone else replied sarcastically that this might have made sense on some other day, but right now practically everyone was gone for the spring holiday and nobody really knew how many students were supposed to be in the room, let alone if any were missing.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>That was when Harry wondered where Hermione was.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>Harry looked over at where the Ravenclaws had clustered, he didn’t see Hermione but then everyone was packed tightly-enough together that you wouldn’t expect to see smaller students through the crowd, amid the upper-years.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>Harry then looked over at the Hufflepuffs to see if he could spot Neville, and even though Neville was standing behind a much taller student, Harry’s visual processing managed to spot him almost immediately. Hermione wasn’t with the Hufflepuffs either, not that Harry could see – and she certainly wouldn’t be with the Slytherins –</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>Harry pushed his way through the packed crowd, stepping beside or around older students and in one case just ducking between their legs, until he was standing among the Ravenclaws and could definitely verify that, nope, no Hermione.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>‘Hermione Granger!’ Harry said loudly. ‘Are you here?’</p>

    <p>Nobody answered.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>Somewhere in the back of his mind was a rising sense of horror, as other parts of him tried to decide exactly how much to panic. The first Defence class of the year was rather fuzzy in Harry’s mind, but he distantly remembered something about trolls being able to track prey that was alone and undefended.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>Another line of thought searched frantically through inchoate possibilities, what could he <em>do</em> exactly? It wasn’t 3pm yet so he couldn’t reach this <em>now</em> using his Time-Turner. Even if he could sneak out of the room – there had to be some way to put on his Cloak without being noticed, some sort of distraction he could use – he had no idea <em>where</em> Hermione was, and Hogwarts was huge.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>Another part of his mind tried to model possibilities. From what that other student had said, trolls weren’t <em>silent</em> predators, they were noisy –</p>

    <p class="thought">Hermione won’t have any idea it’s a troll, so she’ll go investigate the noise. She’s a heroine, isn’t she?</p>

    <p>– but Hermione now had an invisibility cloak and a broomstick in her pouch. Harry had insisted on that part for both her and Neville, and Professor McGonagall had told him it’d been done. That ought to be enough to let Hermione get away, even if she was lousy on a broomstick. All she had to do was get onto a section of roof, it was a clear day and sunlight was supposed to be bad for trolls somehow, Harry remembered that part and therefore Hermione would remember it exactly. And surely, even if Hermione wanted to prove herself again, she couldn’t possibly be dumb enough to attack a mountain troll.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>She wouldn’t.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>That just wasn’t <em>her.</em></p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>And then it occurred to Harry that somebody had previously tried to frame Hermione Granger for murder using Memory Charms. Had done so inside Hogwarts, without setting off any alarms. And had arranged for Draco to die slowly enough that it wouldn’t set off the wards until at least six hours later when nobody could use a Time-Turner to check. And that whoever was clever enough to infiltrate a troll past the ancient wards of Hogwarts without the Headmaster coming to investigate the strange creature, could be clever enough to <em>also</em> take the obvious step of jinxing Hermione’s magic items …</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>There was a part of him that felt something like slowly rising panic as perspective shifted, a Necker Cube changing orientation, what the <em>hell</em> had Harry been thinking, letting Hermione and Neville be kept inside Hogwarts just because of them being given a few stupid trinkets, that wasn’t going to stop anyone who wanted to <i>kill them</i>.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>Another part of his mind put up resistance, that possibility wasn’t <em>certain</em>, it was complex and the probability could easily be under 50%. It was easy to imagine going into a huge panic in front of everyone and then Hermione getting back from the toilets outside the Great Hall. Or if the troll ended up not going anywhere near her … like in the story of the boy who cried wolf, nobody would believe him the next time if she really was in trouble; it could use up reputational credit that he would later need for something else …</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>Harry recognized an instance of the fear-of-embarrassment schema that stopped most people from ever doing anything under conditions of uncertainty, and squashed it down hard. Even then it was strange how much willpower it took to muster the decision to shout out loud in front of everyone, if he just hadn’t seen Hermione in the crowd it was going to be embarrassing …</p>

    <p class="thought">Tick.</p>

    <p>Harry drew in a deep breath and shouted as loudly as he could, <i>‘Hermione Granger! Are you here?’</i></p>

    <p>The students all turned to look at him. Then some of them turned around to look around themselves. The noise around the room went down in volume as some conversations stilled.</p>

    <p>‘<i>Has anyone seen Hermione Granger since –</i> since around ten-thirty today or so? <i>Does anyone have any idea where she might be?</i>’</p>

    <p>The background babble stilled further.</p>

    <p>Nobody raised their voice to shout anything at him, in particular not, <i>Don’t worry, Harry, I’m right here.</i></p>

    <p>‘Oh, Merlin,’ somebody said from nearby, and then the background babble started up again, taking on a new and excited tone.</p>


</div>
</body>
</html>