<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
  <h1>Cheating</h1>

  <div class="calibre1">
    <p>It was Saturday, on the 4th of April, in the year 1992.</p>

    <p>Mr&nbsp;and Mrs&nbsp;Davis looked rather nervous, as they sat in a certain special section of the Hogwarts Quidditch stands – though today the cushioned benches did not look upon flying broomsticks, but rather viewed a gigantic square of something like parchment; a great white blankness soon to flicker with windows into grass and soldiers. For now it showed only the reflected dull grey colour of the surrounding overcast skies. (Looking rather stormy, though the weather-wizards had promised that the rain wouldn’t break before nightfall.)</p>

    <p>Ordinarily it was the ancient tradition of Hogwarts that mere parents were to Stay Out – for much the same reason that impatient children are told to get out of the kitchen and not meddle in the cook’s affairs. The only reason for a parent-teacher conference was if a teacher felt that a parent wasn’t shaping up properly. It took an exceptional circumstance to make the Hogwarts administration feel that it had to justify itself to <em>you.</em> On any given occasion, generally speaking, the Hogwarts administration was backed up by eight hundred years of distinguished history and you were not.</p>

    <p>Thus it had been with some trepidation that Mr&nbsp;and Mrs&nbsp;Davis had insisted on an audience with Deputy Headmistress McGonagall. It was hard to muster a proper sense of indignation when you were confronting the same dignified witch who, twelve years and four months earlier, had given both of you two weeks’ detention after catching you in the act of conceiving Tracey.</p>

    <p>On the other hand, Mr&nbsp;and Mrs&nbsp;Davis’ courage had been helped by angrily waving about a copy of <i>The Quibbler</i> whose headline showed, in bright bold text for all the world to see:</p>

    <blockquote class="print">
      <p class="calibre7">Pacts with Potter?<br/> Bones, Davis, Granger<br/> in love rectangle of fear</p>
    </blockquote>

    <p>And so Mr&nbsp;and Mrs&nbsp;Davis had argued their way into the Faculty Box of the Hogwarts Quidditch stands, where they were now ensconced with an excellent view of Professor Quirrell’s enchanted screens, so that the two of them could see for themselves ‘Just what the Fiddly-Snocks has been going on in this school, if you’ll pardon the expression, Deputy Headmistress McGonagall!’</p>

    <p>Seated to the left of Mr&nbsp;Davis was another concerned parent, a white-haired man in elegant black robes of unmatchable quality, one Lucius Malfoy, political leader of the strongest faction of the Wizengamot.</p>

    <p>To the left of Lord Malfoy, a sneeringly aristocratic man with a scarred face who had been introduced to them as Lord Jugson.</p>

    <p>Then an elderly but sharp-eyed fellow named Charles Nott, rumoured to be nearly as wealthy as Lord Malfoy, seated on Lord Jugson’s left.</p>

    <p>On the right of Mrs&nbsp;Davis, one would find the comely Lady and yet handsomer Lord of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Greengrass. Young they were as wizards counted age, garbed in grey silken robes set with tiny dark emeralds embroidered into the shape of grass blades. The Lady Greengrass was considered a key swing vote on the Wizengamot, her own mother having retired from the body with surprising speed. Her charming husband, though his family was not noble or wealthy of itself, had taken a seat on the Hogwarts Board of Governors.</p>

    <p>To their right, a square-jawed and incredibly tough-looking old witch, who had shaken hands with Mr&nbsp;and Mrs&nbsp;Davis without the slightest hint of condescension. This was Amelia Bones, Director of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement.</p>

    <p>To Amelia’s right was a oldish woman who had set the fashion scene of magical Britain on its ear by integrating a live vulture into her hat, one Augusta Longbottom. Though she was not addressed as Lady, Madam Longbottom would exercise the full rights of the Longbottom family for so long as their last scion had yet to attain his majority, and she was considered a prominent figure in a minority faction of the Wizengamot.</p>

    <p>At the side of Madam Longbottom was seated none other than Chief Warlock Supreme Mugwump Headmaster Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore, legendary defeater of Grindelwald, protector of Britain, rediscoverer of the fabled twelve uses of dragon’s blood, the most powerful wizard in the world &amp;c.</p>

    <p>And finally, on the far right, one would find the enigmatic Defence Professor of Hogwarts, Quirinus Quirrell, who was leaning back on the cushioned benches as though resting; seeming entirely and naturally at ease in the rarefied company of a voting quorum of the Hogwarts Board of Governors, which had dropped by on this fine Saturday to learn just what the Fiddly-Snocks had been going on at Hogwarts in general and with Draco Malfoy, Theodore Nott, Daphne Greengrass, Susan Bones, and Neville Longbottom in particular. The name of Harry Potter had also been much discussed.</p>

    <p>Oh, and one mustn’t forget Tracey Davis, of course. Director Bones’s eyebrows had climbed in some interest upon hearing the young couple introduced as her parents. Lord Jugson had given them a brief, incredulous stare before dismissing them with a snort. Lucius Malfoy had greeted them politely, his smile containing a hint of grim amusement mixed with pity.</p>

    <p>Mr&nbsp;and Mrs&nbsp;Davis, whose last vote on anything of significance had been touching their wands to the name of Minister Fudge, who had all of three hundred Galleons stored in their Gringotts vault, and who respectively worked at selling cauldrons in a Potions shop and enchanting Omnioculars, were pressed up tightly against each other, sitting rigidly erect upon their cushioned benches, and desperately wishing they’d worn nicer robes.</p>

    <p>The sky above was a solid mass of cloud dispersed into darker and lighter greys, grim with the promise of future storms; though no lightning flickered as yet, nor distant rumbles of thunder echoed; and only a few threatening droplets had fallen.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>To their designated starting place in a certain forest, the Sunshine Regiment marched, though it was really more like a slow walk; you wouldn’t want to tire yourself out before the battle even started, and the breezes of April were annoyingly humid, though cool. Ahead of them, a yellow flame wandered slowly through the air, guiding them according to their pace.</p>

    <p>Susan Bones kept throwing worried glances toward the Sunshine General as they marched through the greyly illuminated forest. Professor Snape’s going after Hermione seemed to have really shaken her. Hermione had even missed her Sunshine Regiment Official Planning Meeting, which seemed understandable enough; but when Susan had offered her sympathy afterwards, Hermione had stammered that she’d lost track of time, which wasn’t at all a usual thing for her to say, and the girl had looked exhausted and frightened like she’d just spent three days locked in a bathroom stall with a Dementor. Even now, when all the Sunshine General’s focus should’ve been on the coming battle, the Ravenclaw girl’s gaze was constantly darting in all directions, as though she expected Dark Wizards to jump out of the bushes and sacrifice her.</p>

    <p>‘The ban on Muggle artifacts cuts down our options a lot,’ Anthony Goldstein was saying in the dour tones the boy used to denote deliberate pessimism. ‘I had the idea of trying to Transfigure nets to throw on people, but&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘No good,’ said Ernie Macmillan. The Hufflepuff boy shook his head, looking even more serious than Anthony. ‘I mean, it’s just like throwing a hex, they’d <em>dodge</em>.’</p>

    <p>Anthony nodded. ‘That’s what I figured, too. Do you have any ideas, Seamus?’</p>

    <p>The former Chaotic Lieutenant still looked a bit nervous and out-of-place, marching along with his new comrades in the Sunshine Regiment. ‘Sorry,’ said the newly minted Captain Finnigan. ‘I’m more the strategic master type.’</p>

    <p>‘<em>I’m</em> the strategic master type,’ said Ron Weasley, sounding put-off.</p>

    <p>‘There are <em>three</em> armies,’ the Sunshine General said acerbically, ‘which means we fight <em>two</em> armies at once, which means we need more than one strategist, which means shut up, Ron!’</p>

    <p>Ron gave their General a surprised and worried look. ‘Hey,’ the Gryffindor boy said in a calming tone, ‘you shouldn’t let Snape get to you so much&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘What do <em>you</em> think we ought to do, General?’ Susan said very loudly and quickly. ‘I mean, we don’t really have a plan at this point.’ Their official planning session had failed <em>amazingly</em> with Hermione gone and both Ron and Anthony thinking they were in charge.</p>

    <p>‘Do we really need a plan?’ the Sunshine General said, sounding a little distracted. ‘We’ve got you and me and Lavender and Parvati and Hannah and Daphne and Ron and Ernie and Anthony <em>and</em> Captain Finnigan.’</p>

    <p>‘That&nbsp;–’ began Anthony.</p>

    <p>‘Sounds like a pretty good strategy,’ Ron said with an approving nod. ‘We’ve got as many strong soldiers now as both other armies put together. Chaos’s only got Potter and Longbottom and Nott left – well, and Zabini too, I suppose&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘And Tracey,’ said Hermione.</p>

    <p>Several people swallowed nervously.</p>

    <p>‘Oh, stop it,’ Susan said sharply. ‘She’s just a battle-hardened member of <abbr>S.P.H.E.W.</abbr>, that’s all General Sunshine means.’</p>

    <p>‘Still,’ Ernie said, turning to look seriously at Susan, ‘I think you’d better go with whatever group fights Chaos, Captain Bones. I know you can’t use your double magical powers except when innocents are in danger, but I mean – just in case Miss&nbsp;Davis <em>does,</em> you know, go out of control and try to eat someone’s soul&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘I can handle her,’ Susan told him, keeping her voice reassuring. Admittedly, Susan hadn’t been replaced by a Metamorphmagus at the moment, but then Tracey probably wasn’t Polyjuiced Dumbledore or whoever.</p>

    <p>Captain Finnigan intoned in a deep, sort-of-rumbling voice, ‘I find your lack of skepticism disturbing.’ He raised his hand with his thumb and forefinger almost touching, pointed at Ernie.</p>

    <p>For some reason Anthony Goldstein seemed to be having a sudden choking fit. ‘What’s that supposed to mean?’ said Ernie.</p>

    <p>‘It’s just something General Potter says sometimes,’ said Captain Finnigan. ‘Funny, when you first join the Chaos Legion it all seems crazy, and then after a couple of months you realize that actually everyone who <em>isn’t</em> in the Chaos Legion is crazy&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘I <em>said</em>,’ Ron said loudly, ‘it sounds like good strategy. We don’t Transfigure anything, we don’t tire ourselves out, we handle whatever they throw at us, and then we just overrun them.’</p>

    <p>‘Okay,’ said Hermione. ‘Let’s do that.’</p>

    <p>‘But&nbsp;–’ said Anthony, shooting a glare at Ron. ‘But General, Harry Potter’s got <em>sixteen</em> people left in his army. Dragon and us each have twenty-eight. Harry knows that, he knows he’s got to come up with something incredible&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘Like what?’ demanded Hermione, sounding stressed. ‘If we don’t know what he’s planning, we might as well save our magic for doing massed <em>Finites.</em> Like we should’ve done <em>last</em> time!’</p>

    <p>Susan touched Hermione gently on the shoulder. ‘General Granger?’ said Susan. ‘I think you should take a break for a bit before the battle.’</p>

    <p>She’d been expecting Hermione to argue, but Hermione just nodded and then walked a little faster, pulling away from the Sunshine Regiment Official Officer Group, her eyes still watching the forest, and sometimes the sky.</p>

    <p>Susan followed her. It wouldn’t do, having it look like the Sunshine General was being ejected from her own Official Officer Group.</p>

    <p>‘Hermione?’ Susan said softly, after they’d walked a bit away. ‘You’ve got to focus. Professor Quirrell’s in charge here, not Snape, and he won’t let anything bad happen to you or anyone.’</p>

    <p>‘You’re not helping,’ Hermione said, sounding shaky. ‘You’re not helping at all, Captain Bones.’</p>

    <p>The two of them walked faster, circling around some of the other soldiers, inspecting the marching perimeter and glancing at the surrounding trees.</p>

    <p>‘Susan?’ Hermione said in a small voice, when they were further away from all the others. ‘Do you think Daphne’s right about Draco Malfoy plotting something?’</p>

    <p>‘Yes,’ Susan said at once, not even thinking about it. ‘You can tell, because his name’s got the letters M-A-L-F-O and Y in it.’</p>

    <p>Hermione looked around, as if to make sure that nobody was watching, although of course that was a wonderful way to get other people to pay attention to you. ‘Could Malfoy have been behind what Snape did?’</p>

    <p>‘Snape could be behind Malfoy,’ Susan said thoughtfully, remembering dinner-table conversations she’d heard at Auntie’s, ‘or Lucius Malfoy could be behind both of them.’ A slight chill went down Susan’s spine as this last thought occurred to her. Suddenly, telling Hermione to just focus on the coming battle seemed a lot less reasonable. ‘Why, did you find some sort of clue about that?’</p>

    <p>Hermione shook her head. ‘No,’ the Ravenclaw girl said, in a voice that sounded almost like she was about to cry. ‘I was – just thinking about it myself – that’s all.’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>In their designated place in a forest near Hogwarts, the Dragon General and the warriors of Dragon Army waited where their red flame had led them, beneath grey skies.</p>

    <p>At Draco’s right side stood Padma Patil, his second-in-command, who had once led all of Dragon Army after Draco had been stunned. At Draco’s back was Vincent, the son of Crabbe, a family which had served the Malfoys into the distance of forgotten memory; the muscular boy was watchful as he was always watchful, whether battle had been declared or no. Further back, Gregory of the Goyles stood waiting beside one of the two broomsticks Dragon Army had been given; if the Goyles had not served the Malfoys so long as the Crabbes, yet they had served no less well.</p>

    <p>And at Draco’s left side, now, stood one Dean Thomas of Gryffindor, a mudblood or possible half-blood who knew nothing of his father.</p>

    <p>Sending Dean Thomas to Dragon Army had been a quite deliberate move on Harry’s part, Draco was certain. Three other former Chaotics had also been transferred to Dragon Army, and all were watching Draco hawklike to see if he offered the former Lieutenant the slightest insult.</p>

    <p>Some might have called it sabotage, but Draco knew better. Harry had also sent Lieutenant Finnigan to the Sunshine Regiment, even though Professor Quirrell’s mandate had only required that Harry give up <em>one</em> Lieutenant. That too had been a deliberate move, making crystal clear to everyone that Harry <em>wasn’t</em> dumping his least-favoured soldiers.</p>

    <p>In one sense, it might have been easier for Draco to win the true loyalties of his new soldiers if they’d thought Harry hadn’t wanted them. In another sense … well, it wasn’t easy to put into words. Harry had given him good soldiers with their pride intact, but it was more than that. Harry had showed kindliness toward his soldiers, but it was more than <em>that</em>. It wasn’t just Harry playing fair, it was something that … that you couldn’t help but contrast with the way the game was played in Slytherin House.</p>

    <p>So Draco hadn’t offered the slightest insult to Mr&nbsp;Thomas, but brought him straight to his side, subordinate to himself and Padma but no one else. It was a test, Draco had told Mr&nbsp;Thomas and everyone, not a promotion. Mr&nbsp;Thomas would have to show himself worthy of rank within Dragon Army – but he would be given a chance, and the chance <em>would</em> be fair. Mr&nbsp;Thomas had looked surprised at the ceremony of it (the Chaos Legion, from what Draco had heard, didn’t stand on formality) but the Gryffindor boy had stood a little straighter, and nodded.</p>

    <p>And then, after Mr&nbsp;Thomas had done well enough in one of Dragon Army’s training sessions, he’d been brought into the strategy session in Dragon Army’s huge military office. And a few minutes into the session, Padma had happened to ask – as though it was a perfectly normal question – whether Mr&nbsp;Thomas had any ideas about how to defeat the Chaos Legion.</p>

    <p>The Gryffindor boy had said cheerfully that Harry had predicted that General Malfoy would get one of his soldiers to ask him that, and that Harry had given him the message that General Malfoy should ask himself where his relative advantage lay – what Draco Malfoy could do, or what Dragon Army could do, that the Chaos Legion couldn’t match – and then try to exploit it for all it was worth. Dean Thomas couldn’t think of what that advantage might be, but if he <em>did</em> come up with any ideas for beating Chaos, he’d share them. Harry had ordered him to, after all.</p>

    <p><em>Sigh,</em> Draco had thought, since he couldn’t actually sigh out loud. But it was good advice, and Draco had followed it, sitting at his bedroom desk with quill and parchment listing out everything that might be a relative advantage.</p>

    <p>And, almost to Draco’s own surprise, he’d had an idea, a real one. In fact he’d had <em>two.</em></p>

    <p>The hollow bell sounded through the forest, somehow sounding more ominous than ever before. On the instant, the two pilots cried <em>‘Up!’</em> and leapt onto their broomsticks, heading into the grey sky.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Mr&nbsp;and Mrs&nbsp;Davis had now slumped slightly against each other, more from sheer muscle exhaustion than from any decrease of tension. Before them, the vast blank white parchment flickered with three great windows, as though holes had been cut through into the forest, showing three armies on the march. Lesser windows showed the six riders upon their broomsticks, and the corner of the parchment showed a view of the entire forest, with glowing dots to indicate armies and scouts.</p>

    <p>The window into Sunshine showed General Granger and her Captains marching in the centre of the Sunshine Regiment, protected by <em>Contego</em> screens along with a number of other young witches. The Sunshine Regiment, the Defence Professor had remarked, knew well that it had now acquired a strong advantage in experienced soldiers, and it meant to protect those soldiers from a surprise attack. Aside from that, the Sunshine Soldiers were moving forward at a steady march, conserving their strength.</p>

    <p>The soldiers in General Malfoy’s army, at least those with higher Transfiguration scores, were picking up leaves and Transfiguring them into … well, if you looked at Padma Patil, who was almost done with hers, it looked like her leaf was becoming a left-handed glove bearing a dangling strap. (The window had zoomed in to show this.)</p>

    <p>Lord Jugson was watching the screen with a flat expression; his voice, when he spoke, seemed to ooze and drip with disdain. ‘What <em>is</em> your son doing, Lucius?’</p>

    <p>The foreign-born witch who stood at Draco Malfoy’s right side had finished Transfiguring her glove, and was now bringing it before the Dragon General like a sacrifice.</p>

    <p>‘I do not know,’ said Lucius Malfoy, his tone calm though no less aristocratic, ‘but I must trust that he has good reason for doing it.’</p>

    <p>All Dragon Army stopped for a moment as Padma slid the glove over her left hand, strapped it in place, and presented it before Draco Malfoy; who also stopped in place, took several deep breaths, raised his wand, executed a precise set of eight movements and bellowed <em>‘Colloportus!’</em></p>

    <p>The Dragon Warrior raised her gloved hand, flexed it, and gave a small bow to Draco Malfoy, who returned it more shallowly, though the Dragon General was staggering slightly. Padma then returned to her place at Draco’s side, and the Dragons began marching once more.</p>

    <p>‘Well,’ remarked Augusta Longbottom. ‘I don’t suppose someone would care to explain?’ Amelia Bones was frowning slightly as she gazed at the screen.</p>

    <p>‘For some reason or other,’ said the amused voice of Professor Quirrell, ‘it seems that the scion of Malfoy is able to cast surprisingly strong magic for a first-year student. Due to the purity of his blood, of course. Certainly the good Lord Malfoy would not have openly flouted the underage magic laws by arranging for his son to receive a wand before his acceptance into Hogwarts.’</p>

    <p>‘I suggest you be careful in your implications, Quirrell,’ Lucius Malfoy said coldly.</p>

    <p>‘Oh, I am,’ Professor Quirrell said. ‘A <em>Colloportus</em> cannot be dispelled by <i>Finite Incantatem;</i> it requires an <em>Alohomora</em> of equal strength. Until then, a glove so Charmed will resist lesser material forces, deflect the Sleep Hex and the Stunning Hex. And as neither Mr&nbsp;Potter nor Miss&nbsp;Granger can cast a counter-spell powerful enough, that Charm is invincible upon this battlefield. It is not the original intent of the Charm, nor the intent of whoever taught Mr&nbsp;Malfoy an emergency spell for evading his enemies. But it would seem that Mr&nbsp;Malfoy has been learning creativity.’</p>

    <p>Lucius Malfoy had straightened as the Defence Professor spoke; he now sat erect upon his cushioned bench, his head held perceptibly higher than before, and when he spoke it was with quiet pride. ‘He will be the greatest Lord Malfoy that has yet lived.’</p>

    <p>‘Faint praise,’ Augusta Longbottom said under her breath; Amelia Bones chuckled, as did Mr&nbsp;Davis for a tiny, fatal fraction of a second before he stopped with a strangled gargle.</p>

    <p>‘I quite agree,’ said Professor Quirrell, though it wasn’t clear to whom he spoke. ‘Unfortunately for Mr&nbsp;Malfoy, he is still new to the art of creativity, and so he has committed a classic error of Ravenclaw.’</p>

    <p>‘And what might that be?’ said Lucius Malfoy, his voice now turned chill once more.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell had leaned back in his seat, the pale blue eyes briefly unfocusing as one of the windows shifted its viewpoint within the greater screen, zooming in to show the sweat now on Draco Malfoy’s forehead. ‘It is such a beautiful idea that Mr&nbsp;Malfoy has quite overlooked its pragmatic difficulties.’</p>

    <p>‘Would someone care to explain that?’ said Lady Greengrass. ‘Not all of us present are experts at such … affairs.’</p>

    <p>Amelia Bones spoke, the old witch’s voice somewhat dry. ‘It will tempt them to try to catch hexes that they would be wiser to simply dodge. The more so, if they have had little practise catching them. And the casting of so many Charms will tire their strongest warrior.’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell gave the DMLE Director a half-nod of acknowledgement. ‘As you say, Madam Bones. Mr&nbsp;Malfoy is new to the business of having ideas, and so when he has one, he becomes proud of himself for having it. He has not yet had enough ideas to unflinchingly discard those that are beautiful in some aspects and impractical in others; he has not yet acquired confidence in his own ability to think of better ideas as he requires them. What we are seeing here is not Mr&nbsp;Malfoy’s best idea, I fear, but rather his only idea.’</p>

    <p>Lord Malfoy simply turned to watch the screens again, as though the Defence Professor had used up his right to exist.</p>

    <p>‘But&nbsp;–’ said Lord Greengrass. ‘But what in Merlin’s name is Harry Potter&nbsp;–’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Sixteen remaining soldiers of the Chaos Legion – or fifteen plus Blaise Zabini, rather – marched confidently through the forest, their shoes thudding over the still-dry ground. Their camouflage uniforms blended into the forest even more than usual, all colours washed out by the tints of an overcast day.</p>

    <p>Sixteen Chaos Legionnaires, against twenty-eight Dragon Warriors and twenty-eight Sunshine Soldiers.</p>

    <p>The common consensus had been that, with odds that bad, it was practically impossible for them to lose. After all, General Chaos was bound to come up with something really <em>spectacular,</em> facing odds like that.</p>

    <p>There was something almost nightmarish about how everyone seemed to now expect Harry to pull miracles out of his hat, on demand, any time one was needed. It meant that if you couldn’t do the impossible, you were <i>disappointing your friends</i> and <i>failing to live up to your potential …</i></p>

    <p>Harry hadn’t bothered complaining to Professor Quirrell about <i class="q">too much pressure</i>. Harry’s mental model of the Defence Professor had predicted him looking severely annoyed, saying things along the lines of <i>You are perfectly capable of solving this problem, Mr&nbsp;Potter; did you even try?</i> and then deducting several hundred Quirrell points.</p>

    <p>From above, from where two broomsticks watched their march, the high young voice of Tess Walsh cried ‘Friend!’ and after another moment, ‘Gingersnap!’</p>

    <p>A handful of seconds later, the soldier who’d code-named herself Gingersnap returned bearing a double handful of acorns, sweating slightly in the cool but humid air from the jog that had taken her to the oak tree Neville had spotted. Gingersnap approached to where Shannon was holding a uniform-shirt with the neck tied off, in lieu of anyone having to Transfigure a bag. When Gingersnap brought her hands forward to try and dump her acorns into the holding-shirt, Chaotic Shannon, giggling, jerked the shirt to the right, then to the left again as Gingersnap made another effort to dump the acorns, until a sharp ‘Miss&nbsp;Friedman!’ from Lieutenant Nott caused Shannon to sigh and hold the shirt still. Gingersnap dumped her acorns into those accumulated, and then headed out for more.</p>

    <p>Somewhere in the background, Ellie Knight was singing her very own version of the Chaos Legion’s marching song, and around half the other soldiers were trying to step along with it despite not knowing the tune in advance. Nearby, Nita Berdine, who had a high Transfiguration score, finished creating yet another pair of green sunglasses, and handed them to Adam Beringer, who folded up the sunglasses before tucking them into his uniform pocket. Other soldiers were already wearing their own green sunglasses, despite the cloudy day.</p>

    <p>You might guess that there was some sort of incredibly complicated and fascinating explanation behind this, and you would be right.</p>

    <p>Two days earlier Harry had been sitting amid his bookcases in the comfy rocking-chair he’d obtained for his trunk’s cavern level, pondering silently in the quiet span between classes and dinnertime, thinking about power.</p>

    <p>For sixteen Chaotics to defeat twenty-eight Sunnies and twenty-eight Dragons they would need a force amplifier. There were limits to what you could do with manoeuvre. There <em>had</em> to be a secret weapon and it had to be invincible, or at least moderately unstoppable.</p>

    <p>Muggle artifacts were now illegal in Hogwarts’s mock battles, banned by Ministry edict. And the trouble with finding some other clever and unusual spell was that an army twice your own size could brute-force <em>Finite</em> almost anything you tried. The Sunshine Regiment might have missed that tactic with the Transfigured chain mail, but nobody would miss it again now that Professor Quirrell had pointed it out. And <i>Finite Incantatem</i> was a brute-force counter-spell which required at least as much magic as the spell being cancelled … which, if you were severely outnumbered, made it a whole new order of military challenge. The enemy could <em>Finite</em> anything you tried, and still have enough magic left over for shields and volleys of Sleep Hexes.</p>

    <p>Unless, somehow, you could invoke potencies beyond the ordinary strength of first-year Hogwarts students, something too powerful for the enemy to <em>Finite</em>.</p>

    <p>So Harry had asked Neville if he’d ever heard of any <i>small, safe</i> sacrificial rituals –</p>

    <p>And then, after the screaming and the shouting had subsided, after Harry had stopped trying to argue about Unbreakable Vows and just given up the whole thing as impossible from a public relations standpoint, Harry had realized that he hadn’t even needed to go there. They taught you how to invoke potencies far beyond your own strength in ordinary Hogwarts classes.</p>

    <p>Sometimes, even though you were looking straight at something, you didn’t realize <em>what</em> you were looking at until you happened to ask exactly the right question.</p>

    <p class="thought">Defence. Charms. Transfiguration. Potions. History of Magic. Astronomy. Broomstick Flying. Herbology …</p>

    <p><em>‘Foe!’</em> screamed the voice from above.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>It was a good thing that Neville Longbottom hadn’t the tiniest idea that his grandmother was watching; or he would’ve been more self-conscious about screaming scary battlecries at the top of his lungs while casting <em>Luminos</em> every three seconds as he rocketed through a dense forest of trees, hot on the tail of Gregory Goyle.</p>

    <p>(‘But&nbsp;–’ Augusta Longbottom said, her expression showing almost as much astonishment as worry. ‘But Neville is afraid of heights!’)</p>

    <p>(‘Not all fears last,’ said Amelia Bones. The old witch was favouring the great screen before them with a measuring gaze. ‘Or perhaps he has found courage. It is much the same, in the end.’)</p>

    <p>A glimmer of red –</p>

    <p>Neville dodged, very nearly into a tree but he did dodge; and then Neville somehow also managed to dodge <em>almost</em> all of the branches before they smacked him in the face.</p>

    <p>Now Mr&nbsp;Goyle’s broomstick was pulling further and further away – even though the two of them were riding exactly the same broomstick and Mr&nbsp;Goyle weighed more, somehow Neville was still falling behind. So Neville slowed down, pulled back, angled up out of the forest and began to accelerate back toward where the Chaos Legion still marched.</p>

    <p>Twenty seconds later – it hadn’t been a long chase, just an <em>exciting</em> one – Neville was back among his fellow Chaotics, and dismounted his broom to walk on the ground for a little bit.</p>

    <p>‘Neville&nbsp;–’ said General Potter. Harry’s voice was a little distant, as he walked carefully and steadily through the forest, his wand still applied to the almost-finished Form of the object he was slowly Transfiguring. Beside him, Blaise Zabini, working a smaller version of the same Transfiguration, looked like a shambling Inferi as he stumbled forward. ‘I told you – Neville – you don’t have to&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘Yes, I do,’ said Neville. He looked down at where his fingers grasped the broomstick, and saw that not just his hands, but his whole arms were shaking. But unless anyone else in Chaos had been practising duelling for an hour a day with Mr&nbsp;Diggory, and then practising their aim in private for another hour afterwards, Neville was probably the best shot from a broomstick even after taking into account that he wasn’t a very good flyer.</p>

    <p>‘Good show, Neville,’ Theodore said from where he was walking ahead of them all, leading the Chaos Legion forward through the forest while wearing only his under-shirt.</p>

    <p>(Augusta Longbottom and Charles Nott exchanged brief astonished glances and then wrenched their gazes away from one another as though stung.)</p>

    <p>Neville took a few deep breaths, trying to steady his hands, trying to think; Harry might not be good for deep strategic thinking while he was in the middle of an extended Transfiguration. ‘Lieutenant Nott, do you have any idea why Dragon Army just did that? They lost a broom&nbsp;–’ The Dragons had started the combat with a feint to provide a distraction for Mr&nbsp;Goyle’s approach through the forest; Neville hadn’t realized there were <em>two</em> brooms attacking until almost too late. But the Chaos Legion had <em>got</em> the other pilot. That was why broomsticks usually didn’t attack before armies met, it meant a whole army would concentrate fire on the broomstick. ‘And the Dragons didn’t even get anyone, did they?’</p>

    <p>‘Nope!’ Tracey Davis said proudly. She too was now marching by General Potter’s side, her wand gripped low and watchful as her eyes scanned the surrounding forest. ‘I threw up a Prismatic Sphere like a split second before Mr&nbsp;Goyle’s hex got Zabini, and the way Mr&nbsp;Goyle had his other arm stretched out I think he planned to knock down the General, too.’ The Slytherin witch smiled with vicious confidence. ‘Mr&nbsp;Goyle tried a Breaking Drill Hex, but learned to his dismay that his weak magic was no match for my newfound dark powers, hahahaha!’</p>

    <p>Some Chaotics laughed with her, but a queasy sensation was starting in Neville’s stomach as he realized how close the Chaos Legion had come to complete disaster. If Mr&nbsp;Goyle had managed to disrupt both Transfigurations –</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>‘Report!’ snapped the Dragon General, doing his best to conceal the fatigue he felt after casting seventeen Locking Charms, with more yet to come.</p>

    <p>Beads of sweat now dotted Gregory’s forehead. ‘The enemy downed Dylan Vaughan,’ Gregory said formally. ‘Harry Potter and Blaise Zabini were each Transfiguring something dark-grey and roundish, I don’t think it was finished but it looked like it would be big and hollow, sort of cauldron-shaped. Zabini’s was smaller than Potter’s. I couldn’t get either of them or disrupt their Transfigurations, Tracey Davis blocked me. Neville Longbottom is on a broomstick and he’s still a terrible flyer but his aim is really good.’</p>

    <p>Draco listened, frowning, and then he glanced at Padma and Dean Thomas, who both shook their own heads, indicating that they also couldn’t think of what might be big and grey and shaped like a cauldron.</p>

    <p>‘Anything else?’ said Draco. If that was it, they’d lost a broom for nothing –</p>

    <p>‘The only other weird thing I saw,’ Gregory said, sounding puzzled, ‘was that some Chaotics were wearing … sort of like goggles?’</p>

    <p>Draco thought about this, not noticing that he’d stopped marching or that all of Dragon Army had automatically stopped with him.</p>

    <p>‘Was there anything special about the goggles?’ Draco said.</p>

    <p>‘Um …’ Gregory said. ‘They were … greenish, maybe?’</p>

    <p>‘Okay,’ said Draco. Again without thinking, he began walking once more and his Dragons followed. ‘Here’s our new strategy. We’re only going to send eleven Dragons against the Chaos Legion, not fourteen. That should be enough to beat them, now that we can neutralize their special advantage.’ It was a gamble, but you had to take gambles sometimes, if you wanted to come in first in a three-way battle.</p>

    <p>‘You figured out Chaos’s plan, General Malfoy?’ said Mr&nbsp;Thomas with considerable surprise.</p>

    <p>‘What are they doing?’ said Padma.</p>

    <p>‘I haven’t the faintest idea,’ said Draco, with a smirk of the most refined smugness. ‘We’ll just do the obvious thing.’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Harry, having now finished his cauldron, was carefully scooping acorns into the container while the scouts searched for a nearby source of water that could be used as a liquid base. They’d come across frequent sinkholes and miniature creeks in the forest before, so it ought not to take long. Another scout had brought a straight stick that would serve as a stirrer, so Harry didn’t have to Transfigure one.</p>

    <p>Sometimes, even though you were looking straight at something, you didn’t realize <em>what</em> you were looking at until you happened to ask exactly the right question …</p>

    <p class="thought">How can I invoke magical powers that ought to be beyond the reach of first-year students?</p>

    <p>There was a cautionary tale the Potions Master had told them (with much sneers and laughter to make the stupidity seem low-status instead of daring and romantic) about a second-year witch in Beauxbatons who’d stolen some extremely restricted and expensive ingredients, and tried to brew Polyjuiceso she could borrow the form of another girl for purposes better left unmentioned. Only she’d managed to contaminate the potion with <i>cat hairs,</i> and then instead of seeking a healer immediately, the witch had hidden herself in a bathroom, hoping the effects would just wear off; and when she’d finally been found, it had been too late to reverse the transformation completely, condemning her to a life of despair as a sort of cat-girl hybrid.</p>

    <p>Harry hadn’t realized what that <em>meant</em> until the instant of thinking the right question – but what that implied was that a young wizard or witch could do things with Potions-Making that they couldn’t even come close to doing with Charms. Polyjuice was one of the most potent potions known … but what made Polyjuice a N.E.W.T.-level potion, apparently, wasn’t the required age before you had enough magical power; it was how difficult the potion was to brew precisely and what happened to you if you messed up.</p>

    <p>Nobody in any army had tried brewing any potions up until then. But Professor Quirrell would let you get away with nearly anything, if it was something you could also have done in a real war. <i>Cheating is technique,</i> the Defence Professor had once lectured them. <i>Or rather, cheating is what the losers call technique, and will be worth extra Quirrell points when executed successfully.</i> In principle, there was nothing unrealistic about Transfiguring a couple of cauldrons and brewing potions out of whatever came to hand, if you had enough time before the armies met.</p>

    <p>So Harry had retrieved his copy of <i>Magical Drafts and Potions,</i> and begun looking for a safe but useful potion he could brew in the minutes before the battle started – a potion which would win the battle too fast for counter-spells, or produce spell effects too strong for first-years to <em>Finite.</em></p>

    <p>Sometimes, even though you were looking straight at something, you didn’t realize <em>what</em> you were looking at until you happened to ask exactly the right question …</p>

    <p class="thought">What potion can I brew using only components gathered from an ordinary forest?</p>

    <p>Every recipe in <i>Magical Drafts and Potions</i> used at least one ingredient from a magical plant or animal. Which was unfortunate, because all the <em>magical</em> plants and animals were in the Forbidden Forest, not the safer and lesser woods where battles were held.</p>

    <p>Someone else might have given up at that point.</p>

    <p>Harry had turned the pages from one recipe to another, skimming faster and faster in dawning realization, confirming what he had already read and was now <em>seeing</em> for the first time.</p>

    <p>Every single Potions recipe seemed to demand at least one magical ingredient, <i>but why should that be true?</i></p>

    <p>Charms required no material components at all; you just said the words and waved your wand. Harry had been thinking about Potions-Making as essentially analogous: instead of your spoken syllables triggering a spell effect for no comprehensible reason, you collected a batch of disgusting ingredients and stirred four times clockwise, and that arbitrarily triggered a spell effect.</p>

    <p>In which case, given that most potions used ordinary components like porcupine quills or stewed slugs, you’d expect to see some potions using <em>only</em> ordinary components.</p>

    <p>But instead every single recipe in <i>Magical Drafts and Potions</i> demanded at least <em>one</em> component from a magical plant or animal – an ingredient like silk from an Acromantula or petals from a Venus Fire Trap.</p>

    <p>Sometimes, even though you were looking straight at something, you didn’t realize <em>what</em> you were looking at until you happened to ask exactly the right question …</p>

    <p class="thought">If making a potion is like casting a Charm, why don’t I fall over from exhaustion after brewing a draught as powerful as boil-curing?</p>

    <p>The Friday before last, Harry’s double Potions class had brewed <i>potion of boil-curing</i> … although even the most trivial healing Charms, if you tried to cast them with wand and incantation, were at least fourth-year spells. And afterwards, they’d all felt the way they usually felt after Potions class, namely, <em>not</em> magically exhausted to any discernible degree.</p>

    <p>Harry had shut his copy of <i>Magical Drafts and Potions</i> with a snap, and rushed down to the Ravenclaw common room. Harry had found a seventh-year Ravenclaw doing his N.E.W.T. potions homework and paid the older boy a Sickle to borrow <i>Moste Potente Potions</i> for five minutes; because Harry hadn’t wanted to run all the way to the library to find confirmation.</p>

    <p>After skimming through five recipes in the seventh-year book, Harry had read the sixth recipe, for a <i>potion of fire breathing</i>, which required Ashwinder eggs … and the book warned that the resulting fire could be no hotter than the magical fire which had spawned the Ashwinder which had laid the eggs.</p>

    <p>Harry had shouted <em>‘Eureka!’</em> right in the middle of the Ravenclaw common room, and been severely rebuked by a nearby prefect, who’d thought Mr&nbsp;Potter was trying to cast a spell. Nobody in the wizarding world knew or cared about some ancient Muggle named Archimedes, nor the ur-physicist’s realization that the water displaced from a bathtub would equal the volume of the object entering the bathtub …</p>

    <p>Conservation laws. They’d been the critical insight in more Muggle discoveries than Harry could easily count. In Muggle technology you couldn’t raise a feather one metre off the ground without the power coming from <em>somewhere.</em> If you looked at molten lava spilling from a volcano and asked where the heat came from, a physicist would tell you about radioactive heavy metals in the centre of the Earth’s molten core. If you asked where the energy to power the radioactivity came from, the physicist would point to an era before the Earth had formed, and a primordial supernova in the early days of the galaxy which had baked atomic nuclei heavier than the natural limit, the supernova compressing protons and neutrons into a tight unstable package that yielded back some of the supernova’s energy when it split. A light bulb was fuelled by electricity, fuelled by a nuclear power plant, fuelled by a supernova … You could play the game all the way back to the Big Bang.</p>

    <p>Magic did <em>not</em> appear to work like this, to put it mildly. Magic’s attitude toward laws like Conservation of Energy was somewhere between a giant extended middle finger, and a shrug of total indifference. <em>Aguamenti</em> created water out of nothingness, so far as anyone knew; there was no known lake whose water level went down each time. That was a simple fifth-year spell, not considered impressive by wizards, because creating a mere glass of water didn’t seem amazing to them. They didn’t have the wacky notion that mass ought to be conserved, or that creating a gram of mass was somehow equivalent to creating 90,000,000,000,000 joules of energy. There was an upper-year spell Harry had run across whose <i>literal incantation</i> was <i class="q"><i>Arresto Momentum!</i></i> and when Harry had asked if the momentum went anywhere <em>else</em> he’d just got a puzzled look. Harry had kept an increasingly desperate eye out for <em>some</em> kind of conservation principle in magic, anywhere whatsoever …</p>

    <p>… and the whole time it had been right in front of him in every Potions class. Potions-Making didn’t <em>create</em> magic, it <em>preserved</em> magic, that was why every potion needed at least one magical ingredient. And by following instructions like <i class="q">stir four times anticlockwise and once clockwise</i> – Harry had hypothesized – you were doing something like casting a small spell that reshaped the magic in the ingredients. (And unbound the physical form so that ingredients like porcupine quills dissolved smoothly into a drinkable liquid; Harry strongly suspected that a Muggle following exactly the same recipe would end up with nothing but a spiny mess.) That was what Potions-Making really <em>was,</em> the art of transforming existing magical essences. So you were a little tired after Potions class, but not much, because you weren’t empowering the potions yourself, you were just reshaping magic that was already there. And that was why a second-year witch could brew Polyjuice, or at least get close.</p>

    <p>Harry had kept scanning through <i>Moste Potente Potions,</i> looking for something that might disprove his shiny new theory. After five minutes he’d flipped the older boy another Sickle (over his protests) and kept going.</p>

    <p>The <i>potion of giant strength</i> required a Re’em to trample the mashed Dugbogs you stirred into the potion. It was odd, Harry had realized after a moment, because crushed Dugbogs weren’t strong themselves, they were just … very, very crushed after the Re’em got through with them.</p>

    <p>Another recipe said to <i class="q">touch with forged bronze</i>, i.e., grasp a Knut in pliers so you could skim the potion’s surface; and if you dropped the Knut all the way in, the book warned, the potion would instantly superheat and boil over the cauldron.</p>

    <p>Harry had stared at the recipes and their warnings, forming a second and stranger hypothesis. Of course it wouldn’t be as simple as Potions-Making using magical potentials imbued in the ingredients, like Muggle cars fuelled by the combustion potential of gasoline. Magic would never be as sensible as that …</p>

    <p>And then Harry had gone to Professor Flitwick – since he didn’t want to approach Professor Snape outside of class – and Harry had told Professor Flitwick that he wanted to invent a new potion, and he knew what the ingredients ought to be and what the potion should do, but he didn’t know how to deduce the required stirring pattern –</p>

    <p>After Professor Flitwick had stopped screaming in horror and running in little circles, and Professor McGonagall had been called into the ensuing fierce interrogation to promise Harry that in this case it was both acceptable and important for him to reveal his underlying theory, it had developed that Harry had not made an original magical discovery, but rediscovered a law so ancient that nobody knew who had first formulated it:</p>

    <p class="thought">A potion spends that which is invested in the creation of its ingredients.</p>

    <p>The heat of goblin forges that had cast the bronze Knut, the Re’em’s strength that had crushed the Dugbogs, the magical fire that had spawned the Ashwinder: all these potencies could be recalled, unlocked, and restructured by the spell-like process of stirring the ingredients in exact patterns.</p>

    <p>(From a Muggle standpoint it was just <em>odd,</em> a deranged version of thermodynamics invented by someone who thought life ought to be <em>fair</em>. From a Muggle standpoint, the heat expended in forging the Knut hadn’t gone into the bronze, the heat had left and dissipated into the environment, becoming permanently less available. Energy was conserved, could be neither created nor destroyed; <em>entropy</em> always increased. But wizards didn’t think that way: from their perspective, if you’d put some amount of work into making a Knut, it stood to reason that you could get exactly the same work back out. Harry had tried to explain why this sounded a bit odd if you’d been raised by Muggles, and Professor McGonagall had asked bemusedly why the Muggle perspective was any better than the wizarding one.)</p>

    <p>The fundamental principle of Potions-Making had no name and no standard phrasing, since then you might be tempted to write it down.</p>

    <p>And someone who wasn’t wise enough to figure out the principle themselves might read it.</p>

    <p>And they would start having all sorts of bright ideas for inventing new Potions.</p>

    <p>And then they would be turned into cat-girls.</p>

    <p>It had been made very clear to Harry that he wasn’t going to be sharing this particular discovery with Neville, or Hermione either after the next armies’ battle. Harry had tried to say something about Hermione seeming really off lately and this being just the sort of thing that might cheer her up. Professor McGonagall had said flatly that he wasn’t even to think it, and Professor Flitwick had raised his little hands and made a gesture as of snapping a wand in half.</p>

    <p>Although the two Professors had been kind enough to suggest that if Mr&nbsp;Potter thought he knew what the potion’s ingredients should be, he might be able to find an already-existing recipe that did the same thing; and Professor Flitwick had mentioned several volumes in the Hogwarts library that might be useful …</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>The vast parchment-like screen now showed only an aerial view of the forest, from which you could barely make out the camouflaged forms of three armies, split up into two groups each, converging to fight their three-way battle.</p>

    <p>The benches of the Quidditch stadium were now rapidly filling up with the more easily bored sort of spectator who only wanted to be there for the final battle and skip out on all the boring points along the way. (If there was anything wrong with Professor Quirrell’s battles, it was widely agreed, it was that his spectacles didn’t last nearly as long as Quidditch matches, once they actually started. To this Professor Quirrell had replied only, <i>Such is realism,</i> and that had been that.)</p>

    <p>Within the huge window – it was all one window now, observing from a great height – the vague collections of tiny camouflaged forms grew closer.</p>

    <p>Closer.</p>

    <p>Almost touching –</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>The vast white parchment window showed the first touch of battle between Sunshine and Chaos, a screaming mass of running children with smiley-faces upon their breasts, charging forward with <em>Contego</em> shields held high and others shouting <em>‘Somnium!’</em> –</p>

    <p>Until one of their number shrieked <em>‘Prismatis!’</em> in a terrified voice and the entire charge came to a sudden halt before the sparkling wall of force that had appeared in front of them.</p>

    <p>Tracey Davis had walked out from behind the trees.</p>

    <p>‘That’s right,’ said Tracey, her voice low and grim as she levelled her wand on the barrier. ‘You should fear me. For I am Tracey Davis, the Darke Lady! That’s Darke Lady spelled D-A-R-K-E, with an E!’</p>

    <p>(Amelia Bones, Director of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, was sending an inquiring look at Mr&nbsp;and Mrs&nbsp;Davis, both of whom looked like they would have dearly loved to die on the spot.)</p>

    <p>Behind the Prismatic Barrier, there was some kind of hushed argument taking place among the Sunshine Soldiers, one of whom in particular seemed to be getting scolded by several of the others.</p>

    <p>Then, a moment later, <em>Tracey</em> flinched.</p>

    <p>Susan Bones had come to the front of the Sunshine contingent.</p>

    <p>(‘Goodness,’ said Augusta Longbottom. ‘What <em>do</em> you suppose your grand-niece has been learning at Hogwarts?’)</p>

    <p>(‘I don’t know,’ Amelia Bones said calmly, ‘but I shall owl her a Chocolate Frog and instructions to learn more of it.’)</p>

    <p>The Prismatic Barrier vanished.</p>

    <p>The Sunshine Soldiers resumed their charge forward.</p>

    <p>Tracey yelled, her voice high with strain, <em>‘Inflammare!’</em> and the Sunshine charge came to another sudden halt as a line of fire blazed up between them in the half-dry grass, extending to follow the path of Tracey’s wand as she pointed it; an instant later Susan Bones cried <i>‘Finite Incantatem!’</i> and the flames dimmed, brightened, dimmed in the contest of their wills, other soldiers raising their wards to aim at Tracey; and <em>that</em> was when Neville Longbottom plunged shrieking out of the sky.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>One of the Dragon Warriors, Raymond Arnold, made a hand-sign, pointing forward and oblique left; and there was a sudden hushed hiss of whispers among the Dragon Army contingent as they all quietly reoriented themselves in the direction of the enemy. The Sunnies knew they were there, of course both armies knew; but somehow, in this moment, they had all become instinctively quiet.</p>

    <p>The Dragons crept forward further, and then further, the dull camouflaged forms of the Sunnies beginning to appear among the distant trees, and still nobody spoke, nobody bellowed the call to charge.</p>

    <p>Draco was now at the forefront of his soldiers, Vincent behind him and Padma only a shade further back; if the three of them could take the shock of Sunshine’s best, the rest of Dragon Army might stand a chance.</p>

    <p>Then Draco saw one Sunnie staring at him from the distance, in the vanguard of her own army; staring at him with a look of fury –</p>

    <p>Across the forest battleground, their eyes met.</p>

    <p>Draco had only a fraction of a second to wonder, in the back of his mind, what Hermione Granger was so angry about, before the shout went up from both their armies; and they were all running forward to the charge.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>The other Chaotics had appeared now from among the trees, some had <i>dropped out</i> of trees, and the battle was in full force now, everyone firing in every direction at anything that looked like an enemy. Plus a number of Sunnies crying <em>‘Luminos!’</em> at Neville Longbottom as the Chaos Hufflepuff twisted and rocketed up through the air on courses that could only be described as, indeed, ‘chaotic’ –</p>

    <p>And it happened, the way it happened only one time out of twenty in mock aerial combat, that Neville Longbottom’s broomstick glowed bright red beneath his clenched hands.</p>

    <p>It should’ve meant that Longbottom was out of the game.</p>

    <p>Then, in the Hogwarts stands, among the watching crowds of students, a scream went up –</p>

    <p><i>Combat realism.</i> It was Professor Quirrell’s one master rule. You could get away with anything if it was realistic, and in real life, a soldier didn’t just vanish when their <em>broomstick</em> got hit by a curse.</p>

    <p>Neville was falling toward the ground and screaming <i>‘Chaotic landing!’</i> and the Chaotics were wrenching their attention away from fights to cast the Hover Charm (and run at the same time so they wouldn’t be sitting ducks), almost everyone else stopping to gape –</p>

    <p>And Neville Longbottom slammed into the leaf-laden forest ground, landing on one knee, one foot, and both hands, as though he were kneeling down to be knighted.</p>

    <p>Everything stopped. Even Tracey and Susan paused in their duel.</p>

    <p>In the stadium, all crowd noises vanished.</p>

    <p>There was a universal silence composed of astonishment, concern, and sheer dumbstruck gaping awe, as everyone waited to see what would happen next.</p>

    <p>And then Neville Longbottom slowly rose to his feet, and levelled his wand at the Sunshine Soldiers.</p>

    <p>Though nobody on the battlefield heard it, a large segment of the stadium audience had begun chanting, in steadily rising notes each time the word was uttered, ‘DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM DOOM’, because you just couldn’t see that and <em>not</em> think it required musical accompaniment.</p>

    <p>‘The crowd is cheering your grandson,’ said Amelia Bones. The old witch was favouring the screen with a measuring look.</p>

    <p>‘So they are,’ said Augusta Longbottom. ‘Some, if I hear correctly, are cheering, <i>Our blood for Neville! Our souls for Neville!</i>’</p>

    <p>‘Quite,’ said Amelia, taking a sip from a teacup which had not been there moments earlier. ‘It shows the lad has leadership potential.’</p>

    <p>‘These cheers,’ continued Augusta, her voice taking on an even more stunned quality, ‘seem to be coming from the Hufflepuff benches.’</p>

    <p>‘It is the House of the loyal, my dear,’ said Amelia.</p>

    <p>‘Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore! <i>What in Merlin’s name has been happening in this school?</i>’</p>

    <p>Lucius Malfoy was watching the screens with an ironic smile, his fingers tapping at his armrest in no discernible pattern. ‘I do not know what is more frightening, the thought that he has some hidden plan behind all this, or the thought that he does not.’</p>

    <p>‘Look!’ cried the Lord of Greengrass. The dapper young man had risen half out of his chair, pointing his finger at the screen. ‘There she goes!’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>‘We’ll both take him at once,’ Daphne whispered. She knew that a few fear-filled minutes of real combat experience, a handful of times each week, might not be enough to match Neville’s regular duelling practise with Harry and Cedric Diggory over the same period. ‘He’s too much for one of us, but both of us together – I’ll use my Charm, you just try to stun him&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>Hannah, beside her, nodded, and then they both screamed at the top of their lungs and charged forward, the Hover Charms of two supporting Sunshine Soldiers moving them faster and making them light on their feet, Daphne already crying <em>‘Tonare!’</em> even as Hannah kept a huge <em>Contego</em> shield moving in front of them, and with a brief extra lift they leapt over the heads of the front screen of soldiers and landed in front of Neville with their hair billowing high around them –</p>

    <p>(Photographs were strictly prohibited at all Hogwarts games, but somehow this moment <em>still</em> ended up on the front page of the next day’s <em>Quibbler</em>.)</p>

    <p>– and in the same instant, because fighting older bullies had burned away the slightest traces of hesitation, Hannah fired her first Sleep Hex at Neville (she’d started the incantation while she was still in the air) even as Daphne, concentrating more on speed than on force, slashed down with her Ancient Blade at where she thought Neville’s thighs would be <em>after</em> he dodged –</p>

    <p>But Neville leapt up, not sideways, leapt up higher than he should’ve been able to go, so that her glowing sword cut only the air beneath his feet. Somehow Daphne realized what it meant, that Neville still had other Chaotics Hovering him, in time for her to raise her Blade up over her head, but Neville <i>fell too fast</i> and when his Blade smashed into hers it was like being hit by a Bludger. It knocked Daphne off her feet and sent her sprawling backward onto the grass, hitting the ground hard on her back. It might have been all over for her, then, if Neville hadn’t landed too hard himself and gone to his knees with a pained gasp. And then before Neville could bring his glowing Blade down, Hannah shouted <em>‘Somnium!’</em> and Neville lurched frantically backward – though of course no spell had actually come from Hannah’s wand, the Hufflepuff girl couldn’t really have fired again that fast – which gave Daphne a second to scramble to her feet and get both hands around her wand again –</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>‘Dear Merlin,’ said Lady Greengrass. Her voice seemed unsteady, the aristocratic poise well-punctured. ‘My daughter is fighting with the Charm of the Most Ancient Blade. In her first year. I never knew she possessed – such extraordinary talent&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘Excellent blood,’ Charles Nott said approvingly, causing Augusta to snort.</p>

    <p>‘My good Lady,’ said Professor Quirrell, sounding grave. ‘Do not wrong your daughter so. That is not mere talent which you see.’ His voice grew a little dryer. ‘Rather, it is what happens when children put their competitive efforts into a game which involves actual spell-casting.’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p><em>‘Expelliarmus!’</em> shouted Draco, trying not to let his voice crack as he simultaneously dodged the blazing red stunbolt that Hermione Granger had fired at him, his muscles twisting with the need to dodge in the wrong direction – she’d pointed to his left, and then with a mysterious twitch fired right –</p>

    <p>Hermione dodged the fast-moving duelling hex, and cried with hardly another moment’s pause, <em>‘Steleus!’</em>, a wide-angle Hex that Draco couldn’t avoid, but he managed to point his wand at his own face and cry <em>‘Quiescus!’</em> before the sudden urge to inhale could devolve into a sneezing fit that would’ve ended the battle.</p>

    <p>Draco Malfoy was already half-exhausted from all the Locking Charms and Transfigurations earlier, but his confusion was beginning to give way to a sense of his own blood boiling, he didn’t know why Granger was attacking him so angrily all of a sudden, but <i>if she wanted a fight he’d give her one –</i></p>

    <p>(The Dragons and Sunnies weren’t stopping to watch the duel of their Generals, the Dragons were too disciplined to stop and watch and that meant the Sunnies had to go on fighting too; but the gaping audience in the Hogwarts Quidditch stands were being distracted even from Neville and Daphne’s spectacle, shifting their eyes to the duel of two Generals as Malfoy and Granger fired hex after hex and jinx after jinx at each other, casting more rapidly than any other student in their year could have managed, the Dragon General’s trained duelling dance matched by the Sunshine General’s frantic energy, the combat between them beginning to resemble an adult duel as the two most magically powerful first-years resorted to spells more exotic than the usual Sleep Hex.)</p>

    <p>– although, Draco was beginning to realize, when he and Harry and Professor Quirrell had dismissed Miss&nbsp;Granger as having as much intent to kill as a bowl of wet grapes, they’d never seen her <em>angry.</em></p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Daphne lashed out with her Ancient Blade, again not trying to hit hard but just moving the Blade as fast as possible, at the same time Hannah cried <em>‘Somnium!’</em> and Neville leapt back again, but it had been another bluff and Hannah was moving in to fire a real spell almost point-blank –</p>

    <p>– and Neville Longbottom did exactly what – he would explain afterwards – Cedric Diggory had trained him to do if he was fighting Bellatrix Black, which was to spin around and kick Hannah <i>really hard</i> in the pit of her stomach.</p>

    <p>The Hufflepuff girl made a sad little sound, a gasping cry of pain, as she was knocked off her feet by the hard shoe sinking into her abdomen with the force of Neville’s whole body behind it.</p>

    <p>For an instant the battlefield stood still, everything halted except Hannah’s falling form.</p>

    <p>Then Neville’s face turned to absolute dismay and he lowered his wand, the Chaotic Lieutenant starting instinctively toward his House-mate as he reached for her with his other hand –</p>

    <p>Even as Hannah turned her fall into a roll and came out with her wand raised and shot him.</p>

    <p>A fractional second later, Daphne, who hadn’t hesitated either, sank her Most Ancient Blade squarely into Neville’s back, causing the Chaotic Lieutenant’s muscles to jerk convulsively with the stunning magic discharging into him even as Hannah’s Sleep Hex took effect, and then the last scion of Longbottom was sprawled still on the ground with a look of total surprise frozen to his face.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>‘Today Mr&nbsp;Longbottom has learned a valuable lesson about his feelings of pity and remorse,’ said Professor Quirrell.</p>

    <p>‘And chivalry,’ said Amelia, sipping her tea again.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>‘Are you all right?’ whispered Daphne, as she stood protectively over where Hannah lay on the ground clutching her stomach. The girl didn’t give anything back in reply except more retching sounds that sounded like Hannah was trying not to throw up while trying not to cry.</p>

    <p>Somehow, even though it might not have been good tactics – it would’ve been better if Hannah had been hexed outright, than for other soldiers to be tied up protecting her – a number of Sunnies seemed to be standing in front of Hannah with their wands clutched tightly, staring angrily at the Chaotics. Someone had thrown up a Prismatic barrier between the two groups, Daphne couldn’t see who.</p>

    <p>And for some reason the Chaotics didn’t seem to be pressing the attack. Even Tracey had completely dropped the grim look on her face and was shifting her weight nervously from one foot to another, as though she was having trouble remembering which side she was on –</p>

    <p><em>‘Hold!’</em> shouted a voice. <i>‘Hold battle!’</i></p>

    <p>There wasn’t much battle going on anyway, but it held.</p>

    <p>General Potter, looking every inch the Boy-Who-Lived, strode out from the trees with something large and camouflage-cloth-covered held under one arm.</p>

    <p>‘Is Miss&nbsp;Abbott breathing all right?’ General Potter yelled.</p>

    <p>Daphne didn’t look back. She didn’t trust that this wasn’t a trap – it was absolutely certain that if the Chaotics took the opportunity to attack, Professor Quirrell would not only rule it legal but also award them extra points afterwards. But Daphne could hear the answer well enough with her ears, it wasn’t like Hannah was trying to breathe <em>quietly</em>, and so she said, ‘Sort of.’</p>

    <p>‘She should get out of here and to someone who can use healing Charms,’ Harry said. ‘Just in case that broke something.’</p>

    <p>From behind Daphne, a small gasping voice said, ‘I – can – still – fight&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘Miss&nbsp;Abbott, don’t&nbsp;–’ Harry said, just as there was the sound from behind Daphne of someone collapsing back to the grass after trying and failing to get to her feet. Everyone winced, but Daphne didn’t turn her back on Harry.</p>

    <p>‘Why haven’t the teachers stopped the battle?’ said Susan, her voice angry.</p>

    <p>‘I expect it’s because Miss&nbsp;Abbott is in no danger of permanent damage and Professor Quirrell thinks we’re learning valuable lessons,’ Harry said in a hard voice. ‘Look, Miss&nbsp;Abbott, if you go, Tracey will also retire from the battle. You already outnumber us, so that’s a very good deal for your side. Please take it.’</p>

    <p>‘Hannah, just go!’ said Daphne. ‘I mean, just say you’re out!’</p>

    <p>When Daphne glanced back she saw that Hannah was shaking her head, still curled up in a ball on the grass.</p>

    <p>‘Oh, screw this,’ said Harry. <i>‘Chaotics! The faster we stun them, the faster she’s out of here! We’re going to do this very quickly, even if we take casualties! End truce! <span class="shout">Tunafish!</span>’</i></p>

    <p>Daphne’s political hindbrain had only an instant to admire how Harry’s few words had just made the Chaotics the <em>good</em> guys, and then in almost perfect unison, the Chaotics were plunging their hands into the pockets of their uniforms and drawing out green sunglasses in an unfamiliar style. Not like anything you would wear to the beach, more like goggles for advanced Potions –</p>

    <p>Then Daphne realized what was about to happen and snapped up her other hand to shield her eyes, just as Harry ripped the cloth off the cauldron.</p>

    <p>The fluid that spilled forth as Harry Potter threw the cauldron’s contents into the air was too bright to be seen, too brilliant to be imagined, incandescent like the Sun magnified a dozen times –</p>

    <p>(which was exactly what it was)</p>

    <p>(the sunlight which had been invested to create the acorns, the bright energy that had fuelled a tree rising up from the bare dirt)</p>

    <p>(blazing a searing purple, the colour of the mixed blue and red wavelengths that chlorophyll absorbed)</p>

    <p>(with almost none of the green wavelengths that chlorophyll reflected to create the green colour of leaves)</p>

    <p>(which was the colour of the Chaos Legion’s sunglasses, made to pass through green wavelengths, blocking red and blue, reducing even the most incandescent purple glare to something bearable)</p>

    <p>– the violet light blazed on and on, Daphne tried dropping her arm from her eyes but found that she couldn’t look directly at anything, even the second-hand purple glare was so bright she had to squint; and she had only time to cry one <i>Finite Incantatem,</i> which didn’t work, before a Sleep Hex took her.</p>

    <p>What was left of the battle didn’t take very long after that.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p><span class="shout">‘Now!’</span> bellowed Blaise Zabini, formerly of Sunshine, now commanding a detachment of Chaos Legionnaires. ‘I mean, <span class="shout">Tunafish!’</span> The Slytherin boy’s hand grasped the cloth shielding the cauldron from the triggering touch of daylight, already beginning to move it aside.</p>

    <p><span class="shout">‘Now!’</span> bellowed Dean Thomas, formerly of Chaos, commanding a consignment of Dragon Warriors. <span class="shout">‘Do whatever they do!’</span></p>

    <p>The Chaotics of Zabini’s detachment plunged their hands into their uniform pockets, and came forth bearing green sunglasses –</p>

    <p>– an action almost perfectly mirrored by Dean and the Dragon Warriors, who drew forth green-coloured Potions goggles, and quickly drew the straps over their own heads, even as the Chaotics put on their sunglasses and the violet incandescence blasted forth.</p>

    <p>(As General Malfoy had explained, if Mr&nbsp;Goyle reported that the Chaos Legion was wearing green-coloured Potions goggles, you didn’t have to know <em>why</em> to Transfigure some copies.)</p>

    <p><span class="shout">‘That’s cheating!’</span> shrieked Blaise Zabini.</p>

    <p><span class="shout">‘That’s technique!’</span> Dean yelled back. <span class="shout">‘Dragons, charge!’</span></p>

    <p>(‘Pardon me,’ the Lady Greengrass said. ‘Could you stop laughing like that, Mr&nbsp;Quirrell? It’s unnerving.’)</p>

    <p><span class="shout">‘Finite their goggles!’</span> shouted Blaise Zabini, as the two armies ran headlong toward each other through omnipresent eye-searing purple glare. <span class="shout">‘We can still win!’</span></p>

    <p><span class="shout">‘You heard him!’</span> bellowed Dean. <span class="shout">‘Get their glasses!’</span></p>

    <p>Blaise Zabini’s reply to this wasn’t anything articulate.</p>

    <p>That battle went on a lot longer.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p><em>‘Stupefy!’</em> shrieked the Sunshine General.</p>

    <p>Draco didn’t dodge, he didn’t counter, he didn’t have enough energy left for either, all he could do was whip his left hand into position and hope –</p>

    <p>The red stunbolt dissipated again on Draco’s <em>Colloportused</em> glove, which he’d Transfigured and spell-locked to his hand the same as the rest of Dragon Army. It was all that was saving him now, that shield.</p>

    <p>It should have been a time to counter-attack, but Draco could only catch his breath, as the two of them danced backward and forward beneath the trees in the never-ending movements of their duel. Across from him, General Granger was panting hard, the young girl’s face glistening with sweat like dew, her chestnut hair wetted into brown plaits. Her camouflage uniform was stained with damp spots, her shoulders visibly trembling with exhaustion, but her wand was still steel-steady where it stayed level on Draco through all their motion. Her eyes glaring, her cheeks flushed with rage.</p>

    <p class="thought">So, little girl, why’re you pretending to fight like a grown-up today?</p>

    <p>The taunt came to mind, but he didn’t really think he needed Granger any angrier; so instead Draco just said – though he could hear his own voice cracking – ‘Any reason you’re feeling mad at me, Granger?’</p>

    <p>The girl was gasping for breath herself, her own voice wobbling as she spoke. ‘I know what you’re up to,’ said Hermione Granger, her voice rising. ‘I know what you and Snape are up to, Malfoy, and I know who’s behind it!’</p>

    <p>‘Huh?’ Draco said without even thinking about it.</p>

    <p>That only seemed to increase Granger’s fury, and her fingers whitened on the wand she held levelled on him.</p>

    <p>And then Draco got it, and it boiled his own blood in his veins. Even <em>she</em> thought he was secretly plotting against her –</p>

    <p><i class="shout">‘You too?’</i> Draco yelled. <i class="shout">‘I helped you, you bucktoothed bint! You, you, you,’</i> – stuttering past all the Dark curses that came to mind until he found something he could actually cast at her – <i class="shout">‘Densaugeo!’</i></p>

    <p>But Granger flashed and whirled around the Tooth-Lengthening Hex, and then her own wand came around and levelled at almost point-blank range, even as Draco brought up his left hand like a shield, placing the magic-locked glove between himself and whatever she was about to fire, and the Sunshine General’s own voice rose to a shriek audible across the whole battleground –</p>

    <p><i class="shout">‘Alohomora!’</i></p>

    <p>Time should have paused.</p>

    <p>But it didn’t.</p>

    <p>Instead the padlock clicked and fell off the glove.</p>

    <p>Just like that.</p>

    <p>Just like that.</p>

    <p>The screens showed it all very clearly, to the entire watching Hogwarts stadium.</p>

    <p>And the bone-dead-silent hush that fell over every bench in every stand said that everyone understood quite clearly what it meant, that the scion of House Malfoy had just had his magic overcome by a Muggleborn.</p>

    <p>Hermione Granger didn’t pause in her fight, gave no sign that she even knew what she’d done; instead her foot snapped out in a Muggle-style kick that knocked Draco’s wand cleanly out of his hand, his shocked mind and body moving just a little too slowly. Draco dove after his wand, scrabbling frantically on the ground, but from behind him a girl’s cracking voice said <em>‘Somnium!’</em> and Draco Malfoy fell and didn’t rise again.</p>

    <p>There was another moment of frozen silence. The Sunshine General was wobbling on her feet, looking like she might faint.</p>

    <p>Then the Dragon Warriors screamed at the top of their lungs and charged forward to avenge their fallen commander.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Mr&nbsp;and Mrs&nbsp;Davis were shaking as they stood up from the comfortable chairs of the faculty Quidditch box; they couldn’t quite clutch each other while walking, but they held hands tightly, pretending hard to be invisible. If they’d been children young enough for accidental magic they probably would’ve spontaneously Disillusioned themselves.</p>

    <p>The elderly Charles Nott said nothing as he stood from his chair. The scarred Lord Jugson said nothing, as he stood from his own chair.</p>

    <p>Lucius Malfoy said nothing as he stood.</p>

    <p>All three of them turned without pause and strode toward the stairwell of the elevated stands, moving in eerie unison like an Auror trio –</p>

    <p>‘Lord Malfoy,’ the Defence Professor said in mild tones. That man was still seated in his own chair, looking upon his parchment-like screens, arms limp at his side, as though for some reason he didn’t feel like moving.</p>

    <p>The white-haired man halted just before reaching the exit archway, and the elderly man and the scarred man halted as well, flanking him. Lord Malfoy’s head turned, too slightly to be any form of acknowledgement, but in the Defence Professor’s direction.</p>

    <p>‘Your son performed exceptionally well today,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘I must confess that I underestimated him. And he has earned his army’s loyalty, as you have witnessed.’ Still very mild, the Defence Professor’s voice. ‘Speaking as your son’s teacher, it is my opinion that he will not benefit if you interfere in his&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>Lord Malfoy and his compatriots vanished down the stairs.</p>

    <p>‘A fine try, Quirinus,’ Dumbledore said quietly. The old wizard’s face showed small lines of worry; he hadn’t risen from his own seat either, staring at the parchment screens as though they were still active. ‘Do you think he will listen?’</p>

    <p>The Defence Professor’s shoulders twitched in a slight shrug, the only movement they’d shown since the battle ended.</p>

    <p>‘<em>Well</em>,’ said the Lady Greengrass, as she rose up and cracked her knuckles, stretching, her husband silent beside her. ‘I must say, that was quite … interesting …’</p>

    <p>Amelia Bones had risen from her own cushioned seat without any fuss. ‘Interesting indeed,’ said Director Bones. ‘I do confess, I find myself disturbed by the skill with which those children were fighting one another.’</p>

    <p>‘The skill?’ Lord Greengrass said. ‘Their spells didn’t seem all that impressive to me. Except for Daphne’s, of course.’</p>

    <p>The old witch did not move her eyes from where she was gazing at the Defence Professor’s balding head. ‘The Stunning Hex is not a first-year spell, Lord Greengrass, but that is not the skill I had in mind. They supported each other with those simple spells, they reacted at speed to surprises …’ The Director of the DMLE paused, as though searching for words that a mere civilian could understand. ‘In the midst of battle,’ she said finally, ‘with spells flying in every direction … those children seemed quite at home.’</p>

    <p>‘Indeed, Director Bones,’ said the Defence Professor. ‘Some arts are best begun in youth.’</p>

    <p>The old witch’s eyes narrowed. ‘You are readying them to become a military force, Professor. To what end?’</p>

    <p>‘Now hold on!’ interjected Lord Greengrass. ‘There’s plenty of schools where they teach duelling in first year!’</p>

    <p>‘Duelling?’ said the Defence Professor. From behind it wasn’t visible if the pale face was smiling. ‘That is nothing, Lord Greengrass, to what my students have learned. They have learned not to hesitate in the face of ambushes and greater foes. They have learned to adapt when combat conditions change and change again. They have learned to protect their allies, to protect more those who are more valuable, to abandon pieces which cannot be rescued. They have learned that to survive they must follow orders. Some have even learned a little creativity. Oh, no, Lord Greengrass, <em>these</em> wizards will not hide in their manors and wait to be protected, when the next threat comes. They will know that they know how to fight.’</p>

    <p>Augusta Longbottom loudly clapped her hands together three times.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p class="thought">We won.</p>

    <p>It was the first thing Draco heard when he woke up on the battlefield, Padma telling him how his soldiers had rallied after he fell. How, thanks to the Dragon General’s foresight, Mr&nbsp;Thomas had led his detachment to victory over Chaos. How General Potter had defeated the portion of the Sunshine Regiment that clashed with him. How Mr&nbsp;Thomas’s Dragon Warriors had rejoined the main body of soldiers bearing both their own goggles and the sunglasses of the defeated Chaotics. How, only moments later, General Potter’s remaining contingent had attacked both other armies with a potion that emitted searing purple light. But Dragon had held the numerical advantage over Sunshine and Chaos both, and enough sunglasses for their warriors; and so Padma had managed to lead her inherited army to victory.</p>

    <p>From the light in Padma’s eyes and her arrogant smile that would have done proud to a Malfoy, she was expecting congratulations. Draco managed to grit out some form of praise from between his clenched teeth, and couldn’t have said afterwards what it was. The foreign-born witch, it appeared, hadn’t any idea what’d happened, or what it meant.</p>

    <p class="thought">I lost.</p>

    <p>The Dragons trudged back to Hogwarts beneath grey skies, cold droplets landing heavy on Draco’s skin, one by one. While he’d been stunned, it had begun, the long-promised rain finally beginning to fall. There was only one option left to Draco now. A forced move, as Mr&nbsp;Macnair, who’d taught Draco chess, would have termed it. Harry Potter probably wouldn’t like it, if he really was in love with Granger the way everyone said. But the forced move, as Mr&nbsp;Macnair had defined it, was one you needed to make if you wanted the game to continue at all.</p>

    <p>It kept on playing in Draco’s mind, over and over again, even as he walked like an automaton through the massive portals of Hogwarts, sent away Vincent and Gregory with two sharp words, and became alone within his private bedroom, sitting on his bed, staring at the wall above his desk. Filling his mind like a Dementor had locked him into the memory.</p>

    <p>The padlock on his glove clicking and falling away –</p>

    <p>Draco knew, he <em>knew</em> what he’d done wrong. He’d been so tired after casting twenty-seven Locking Charms for all the other Dragon Warriors. Less than a minute wasn’t enough time to recover after each spell. And so he’d <em>just</em> cast <em>Colloportus</em> on his own padlocked glove, <em>just</em> cast the spell, not put in all his strength to bind it stronger than Harry Potter or Hermione Granger could undo.</p>

    <p>But nobody was going to believe that, even if it was true. Even in Slytherin, nobody would believe that. It sounded like an excuse, and an excuse was all that anyone would hear.</p>

    <p><i>Granger whirled and spun and screamed <span class="shout">‘Alohomora!’</span></i> –</p>

    <p>Draco’s mind kept playing it over and over as the resentment built. He’d helped Granger – cooperated with her on banning traitors – held her hand as she’d dangled off the roof – stopped a riot from breaking out around her in the Great Hall – did she have any idea what he’d risked, what he’d probably already <em>lost</em>, what it meant for the heir of House Malfoy to do that for a <em>mudblood</em> –</p>

    <p>And now there was only one move left, and the thing about a forced move was that you <em>had</em> to make it, even if it meant getting detention and losing House points. Professor Snape would know and understand, but there were limits (Father had warned him) to what the Potions Master would overlook.</p>

    <p>Challenge Granger to a wizard’s duel, in open defiance of Hogwarts regulations. Attack her outright, if she tried to refuse. Defeat her one-on-one, in public, not with clever duelling technique, but by <em>overpowering</em> her magic. Beat her solidly, completely, crush her as utterly as the Dark Lord himself had crushed his enemies. Make it absolutely clear to everyone, so that nobody could possibly doubt, that Draco had just been exhausted from casting the spell so many times. Prove that the Malfoy blood was stronger than any mudblood’s –</p>

    <p><i>Only it’s not,</i> Harry Potter’s voice whispered inside Draco’s mind. <i>It’s easy to forget what’s really true, Draco, once you start trying to win at politics. But in reality there’s only one thing that makes you a wizard, remember?</i></p>

    <p>Draco knew, then, he knew the reason for the disquiet in the back of his mind, as he stared at the blank wall above his desk contemplating his forced move. It should’ve been simple – when you only had one move, the thing to do was make it – but –</p>

    <p class="thought">Granger whirling, spinning, sweat-dampened hair flying around her, bolts flying from her wand as fast as his own, jinx and counter-jinx, glowing bats flying at his face, and through all of it the look of fury in Granger’s eyes –</p>

    <p>There’d been a part of him admiring that, before it had all gone wrong, admiring Granger’s fury and power; a part of him that had exulted in the first real fight he’d ever been in, against …</p>

    <p>… an equal opponent.</p>

    <p>If he challenged Granger, and <i>lost …</i></p>

    <p>It ought not to be possible, Draco had got his wand two full years before anyone else in his Hogwarts class.</p>

    <p>Only there was a reason why they usually didn’t bother giving wands to nine-year-olds. Age counted too, it wasn’t just how long you’d held a wand. Granger’s birthday had been only a few days into the year, when Harry had bought her that pouch. That meant she was twelve now, that she’d been twelve almost since the start of Hogwarts. And the truth was, Draco hadn’t been practising much outside of class, probably not nearly as much as Hermione Granger of Ravenclaw. Draco hadn’t thought he needed any more practise to stay ahead …</p>

    <p><i>And Granger was exhausted too,</i> whispered the Voice of Contrary Evidence inside him. Granger must have been exhausted from all those Stunning Hexes, and even in that state she’d been able to undo his Locking Charm.</p>

    <p>And Draco <i>could not</i> afford to challenge Granger publicly, one-on-one with no excuses, and lose.</p>

    <p>Draco knew what you were supposed to do in this sort of situation. You were supposed to cheat. But if anyone discovered Draco cheating, it would be disastrous, perfect blackmail material even if it never got out publicly, and any Slytherins watching would <em>know</em> that, they’d be <em>looking</em> …</p>

    <p>And then, if you were watching, you would have seen Draco Malfoy get up from his bed, and go to his desk, and take out a sheet of the finest sheepskin parchment, and a pearl-carven inkwell, filled with greenish-silver ink that had been made with true silver and crushed emeralds. From the great trunk at his bed’s foot, the Slytherin drew forth a book bound also in silver and emeralds, entitled <i>The Etiquette of the Houses of Britain.</i> And with a new, clean quill, Draco Malfoy began to write, frequently looking to the book where it lay open as a reference. There was a grim smile on the boy’s face, making the young Malfoy look very much like his father, as he carefully drew each letter as though it were a separate artwork.</p>

    <blockquote class="hand">
      <p>From Draco, son of Lucius son of Abraxis Lords of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy, son also of Narcissa daughter of Druella Lady of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Black, scion and heir of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy:</p>

      <p>To Hermione, the first Granger:</p>
    </blockquote>

    <p>(That form might have been meant to sound polite, long ago when it had been invented; nowadays, after centuries of being used to address mudbloods, it carried a lovely tinge of refined venom.)</p>

    <blockquote class="hand">
      <p>I, Draco, of Most Ancient House, demand redress, for</p>
    </blockquote>

    <p>Draco paused, carefully moving the quill aside so that it wouldn’t drip. He needed a pretext for this, at least if he wanted to impose the duel’s conditions. The challenged had the choice of terms <em>unless</em> they had insulted a Noble House. He needed to make it look like Granger had insulted him …</p>

    <p>What was he thinking? Granger <em>had</em> insulted him.</p>

    <p>Draco flipped the book to the page of standard formulae, and found one that seemed appropriate.</p>

    <blockquote class="hand">
      <p>I, Draco, of Most Ancient House, demand redress, for that I have thrice over helped you and offered you only my goodwill, and in return you <span class="calibre8">falsely</span> accused me of plotting against you,</p>
    </blockquote>

    <p>Draco had to stop and take a breath, forcing down the seething anger; he was starting to genuinely feel the insult now, and he’d just written out the last phrase and underlined it without thinking, like it was an ordinary letter. After a moment’s reflection, he decided to let it stand; it might not be the exact formal phrasing but it had a raw, angry tone that seemed appropriate.</p>

    <blockquote class="hand">
      <p>which insult you committed before the eyes of Britain.</p>

      <p>Thus I, Draco, compel you, Hermione, by custom, by law, by</p>
    </blockquote>

    <p>‘The seventeenth ruling of the thirty-first Wizengamot,’ Draco said aloud without looking, a line delivered in many plays; he sat straighter as he said it, feeling every pulse of the noble blood in his veins.</p>

    <blockquote class="hand">
      <p>Thus I, Draco, compel you, Hermione, by custom, by law, by the 17th ruling of the 31st Wizengamot, to meet me in wizard’s duel with terms: That we each come alone and in silence, speaking to none before or after,</p>
    </blockquote>

    <p>If the duel went poorly, Draco could just say nothing and leave it at that. And if he did defeat Granger, he would have learned experimentally that he could beat her <em>again</em> in a public challenge. It wasn’t cheating, but it was Science, which was almost as good.</p>

    <blockquote class="hand">
      <p>contesting by magic solely, without death or lasting injury,</p>
    </blockquote>

    <p>… where? Draco had been told about a room in Hogwarts that was good for duels, where everything valuable was already protected by wards, and there were no portraits to tattle on you … which one had it been again …</p>

    <blockquote class="hand">
      <p>in the trophy room of the Castle of the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry,</p>
    </blockquote>

    <p>And their second and public duel had better be soon, like tomorrow, it would take very little time for his reputation in Slytherin to go irretrievably to sludge. He needed to fight Granger for the first time <em>tonight</em>.</p>

    <blockquote class="hand">
      <p>upon midnight’s stroke that shall end this very day.</p>

      <p>Draco, of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy.</p>
    </blockquote>

    <p>Draco signed the formal parchment, and then drew forth his ordinary and lesser parchment, and his regular ink, for his post scriptum:</p>

    <blockquote class="hand">
      <p>If you don’t know how the rules work, Granger, here’s how it is. You insulted a Most Ancient House, and I’ve got the lawful right to challenge. And if you affront the conditions of the duel, like by having Flitwick show up at the trophy room, or even just telling anyone else, my father will take you and your false honor straight to the Wizengamot.</p>

      <p>Draco Malfo</p>
    </blockquote>

    <p>On the last letter his quill pressed down on the parchment so viciously that the nib snapped off, creating a streak of ink and a small rip in the parchment, which Draco decided also looked appropriate.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>That night at dinnertime, Susan Bones came to Harry Potter and told him that she thought Draco Malfoy was going to carry out his plot against Hermione very soon. She was warning all the members of <abbr>S.P.H.E.W.</abbr>, and she’d warned Professor Sprout, and she’d warned Professor Flitwick, and she was going to send a letter to her Aunt tonight, and now she was warning Harry Potter, too. Only they couldn’t quite talk about it with Padma – Susan said, looking very serious – because Padma was feeling torn between her loyalty to Hermione and her loyalty to her General.</p>

    <p>Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, who was at this point feeling more frustrated with the entire situation than anything really <em>productive</em>, snapped at her that <em>yes</em>, he knew something had to be done.</p>

    <p>After Susan Bones left, Harry looked over at the other end of the Ravenclaw table, where Hermione had sat down away from him or Padma or Anthony or any of her other friends.</p>

    <p>But Hermione didn’t look like she was in a mood where somebody going over and bothering her would be taken very well.</p>

    <p>Later, looking backward, Harry would think of how, in his SF and fantasy novels, people always made their big, important choices for big, important reasons. Hari Seldon had created his Foundation to rebuild the ashes of the Galactic Empire, not because he would look more important if he could be in charge of his own research group. Raistlin Majere had severed ties with his brother because he wanted to become a god, not because he was incompetent at personal relationships and unwilling to ask for advice on how to do better. Frodo Baggins had taken the Ring because he was a hero who wanted to save Middle-Earth, not because it would’ve been too awkward not to. If anyone ever wrote a true history of the world – not that anyone ever could or would – probably 97% of all the key moments of Fate would turn out to be constructed of lies and tissue paper and trivial little thoughts that somebody could’ve just as easily thought differently.</p>

    <p>Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres looked at Hermione Granger, where she’d sat down at the other end of the table, and felt a sense of reluctance to bother her when she looked like she was already in a bad mood.</p>

    <p>So then Harry thought that it probably made more sense to talk to Draco Malfoy first, just so that he could absolutely positively definitely assure Hermione that Draco really wasn’t plotting against her.</p>

    <p>And later on after dinner, when Harry went down to the Slytherin basement and was told by Vincent that <i>the boss ain’t to be disturbed</i> … then Harry thought that maybe he should see if Hermione would talk to him right away. That he should just get started on unravelling the whole mess before it ravelled any further. Harry wondered if he might just be procrastinating, if his mind had just found a clever excuse to put off something unenjoyable-but-necessary.</p>

    <p>He actually thought that.</p>

    <p>And then Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres decided that he’d just talk to Draco Malfoy the next morning instead, after Sunday breakfast, and <em>then</em> talk to Hermione.</p>

    <p>Human beings did that sort of thing all the time.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>It was Sunday morning, on the 5th of April, 1992, and the simulated sky above the Great Hall of Hogwarts showed great torrents of rain pouring down in such density that the lightning flashes were diminished and scattered into small pulses of white light that sometimes transformed the House tables, paling their faces and making all the students appear briefly to be ghosts.</p>

    <p>Harry sat at the Ravenclaw table, wearily eating a waffle, waiting for Draco to make an appearance so that he could get started on sorting this whole thing out. There was a <em>Quibbler</em> being passed around which had somehow ended up with Hannah and Daphne on the front page, but it hadn’t reached his place yet.</p>

    <p>A few minutes later Harry finished eating his waffle, and then looked around again to see if Draco had arrived yet for breakfast at the Slytherin table.</p>

    <p>It was odd.</p>

    <p>Draco Malfoy was almost never late.</p>

    <p>Since Harry was looking in the direction of the Slytherin table, he didn’t see Hermione Granger entering through the huge doors of the Great Hall. Thus he was rather startled when he turned back and discovered Hermione sitting down directly beside him at the Ravenclaw table, just as if she hadn’t not-done that for more than a week.</p>

    <p>‘Hi, Harry,’ Hermione said, her voice sounding almost exactly normal. She started to put toast on her plate and a selection of healthy fruits and vegetables. ‘How are you?’</p>

    <p>‘Within one standard deviation of my own peculiar little average,’ Harry automatically replied. ‘How are you doing? Did you sleep okay?’</p>

    <p>There were dark bags under Hermione Granger’s eyes.</p>

    <p>‘Why, yes, I’m fine,’ said Hermione Granger.</p>

    <p>‘Um,’ Harry said. He took a slice of pie onto his plate (as his brain was occupied with other things, Harry’s hand simply took the tastiest thing within range, without evaluating complex concepts like whether he was ready to eat dessert). ‘Um, Hermione, I’m going to need to talk to you later today, is that okay?’</p>

    <p>‘Sure,’ said Hermione. ‘Why wouldn’t it be?’</p>

    <p>‘Because&nbsp;–’ Harry said. ‘I mean – you and I haven’t – for the last few days&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p><i>Shut up,</i> suggested an internal part of Harry that seemed to have been recently allocated for governing Hermione-related issues.</p>

    <p>Hermione Granger didn’t look like she was paying much attention to him in any case. She just stared down at her plate, and then, after about ten seconds of awkward silence, began to eat her tomato slices, one after another, without pause.</p>

    <p>Harry looked away from her and began to eat a slice of pie which, he discovered, had somehow materialized on his plate.</p>

    <p>‘So!’ Hermione Granger suddenly said after she’d polished off most of her plate in silence. ‘Anything happening today?’</p>

    <p>‘Um …’ Harry said. He looked around frantically, as though to find something-happening that he could use as conversational fodder.</p>

    <p>And so Harry was one of the first to see it, and wordlessly point, although the sudden swell of whispers that swept through the Great Hall showed that a number of other people had seen it too.</p>

    <p>The distinctive crimson tinge of the robes would have been recognizable anywhere, but it still took Harry’s brain a few moments to place the faces. An Asianish-looking man, solemn, and today looking rather grim. A man with a piercing gaze that swept over the room, his long black hair waving behind him in a ponytail. A man thin and pale and unshaven, with a face so blank that it was like stone. It took Harry a few moment to place the faces, and remember the names, from that long-ago day in January when the Dementor had come to Hogwarts: <i>Komodo, Butnaru, Goryanof.</i></p>

    <p>‘An Auror trio?’ Hermione said in a strange bright voice. ‘Why, I wonder what they’d be doing here.’</p>

    <p>Dumbledore was in their company as well, looking as worried as Harry had ever seen him; and after a moment’s pause while the old wizard’s eyes scanned the Great Hall and the students whispering over their breakfasts, he pointed –</p>

    <p>– straight at Harry.</p>

    <p>‘Oh, now what,’ Harry said under his breath. His inward thoughts were a lot more panicked than that, as he wondered frantically if anyone had connected him to the Azkaban breakout somehow. He looked at the Head Table, trying to make the glance casual, and realized that Professor Quirrell was nowhere to be seen, this morning –</p>

    <p>The Aurors swept toward him with swift strides, Auror Goryanof approaching from the other side of the Ravenclaw table as though to block any escape in that direction, Auror Komodo and Auror Butnaru approaching from Harry’s side, the Headmaster following straight on Komodo’s heels.</p>

    <p>All conversation everywhere had ground to utter silence.</p>

    <p>The Aurors reached Harry’s place at the table, surrounding him from three angles.</p>

    <p>‘Yes?’ Harry said, as normally as he could. ‘What is it?’</p>

    <p>‘Hermione Granger,’ Auror Komodo said in a toneless voice, ‘you are under arrest for the attempted murder of Draco Malfoy.’</p>

    <p>The words dropped into Harry’s consciousness and shattered his thoughts into a hundred shards of incredulity, the shock of adrenaline running into so much confusion that –</p>

    <p>‘She&nbsp;–’ Harry said. ‘She – she wouldn’t – <em>What?</em>’</p>

    <p>The Aurors weren’t paying any attention to him. Komodo spoke again, still in that colourless voice. ‘Mr&nbsp;Malfoy has regained consciousness in St. Mungo’s and named you, Hermione Granger, as his assaulter. He has repeated these accusations under two drops of Veritaserum. The Blood-Cooling Charm you cast upon Mr&nbsp;Malfoy would have killed him if he had not been found and treated, and it must be presumed known to you that this was a fatal curse. I therefore arrest you upon the serious charge of attempted murder and you will be taken into Ministry custody to be interrogated under three drops of Veritaserum&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p><i>‘Are you mad?’</i> the words burst out of Harry’s mouth, as he shoved himself up from the Ravenclaw table, an instant before Auror Butnaru’s hand clamped down hard upon his shoulder. Harry ignored it. ‘That’s <i>Hermione Granger</i> you’re trying to arrest, the nicest girl in Ravenclaw, she helps Hufflepuffs with their homework, she’d <em>die</em> before she tried to kill <i>anyone –</i>’</p>

    <p>Hermione Granger’s face had crumpled. ‘I did it,’ she whispered in a tiny voice. ‘It was me.’</p>

    <p>Another huge rock fell on Harry’s thoughts and crushed their fragile order, bursting fragments of comprehension into dust.</p>

    <p>Dumbledore’s face seemed to have aged decades over the course of seconds. ‘Why, Miss&nbsp;Granger?’ Dumbledore said, his own voice barely above a whisper. ‘Why would you do such a thing?’</p>

    <p>‘I’m,’ Hermione said, ‘I’m, I’m – sorry – I don’t know why I&nbsp;–’ She seemed to collapse in on herself, her voice was formed of nothing but sobs, and the only words that could be made out were, ‘I thought – killed him – sorry&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>And Harry should have said something, should have done something, should have jumped up out of his seat and stunned all three Aurors and then gone on to some incredibly clever next move, but the twice-shattered fragments of his thought processes could yield no output. Butnaru’s hand pushed Harry gently but firmly back into his seat and Harry found himself <em>stuck</em> there like he’d been glued, he tried to grab his wand for a <em>Finite</em> and it wouldn’t come out of his pocket, the three Aurors and Dumbledore escorted Hermione out of the Great Hall amid a rising storm of outcries and the doors began to swing shut behind them – nothing made sense, it was surreal beyond all reckoning, like he’d been transported into an alternate universe, and then Harry’s mind flashed back to another day of confusion and in a moment of desperate inspiration he finally realized what the Weasley twins had done to Rita Skeeter, and his voice rose in a scream, <i class="shout">‘Hermione you didn’t do it you’ve been false-memory-charmed!’</i></p>

    <p>But the doors had already shut.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Minerva couldn’t possibly have stood still, she paced back and forth through the Headmaster’s office, the back of her mind half-expecting Severus or Harry to tell her to shut up and sit down, but neither the Potions Master or the Boy-Who-Lived seemed much concerned with her, both of their gazes focused on Albus Dumbledore where he had emerged from the Floo. There were sounds in the background that nobody heard. Severus seemed as passionless as ever, sitting in a small cushioned chair beside the Headmaster’s desk. The old wizard stood terrible and upright by the still-burning fireplace, robed in black like a starless night, radiating power and dismay. All her own thoughts were of utter confusion and horror. Harry Potter sat on a wooden stool with his fingers gripping the seat, and his eyes were fury and freezing ice.</p>

    <p>At 6:33am, Quirinus Quirrell had Flooed St. Mungo’s from his office for immediate pickup of Draco Malfoy. Professor Quirrell had found Mr&nbsp;Malfoy in the trophy room of Hogwarts, on the verge of death from the continuing effects of the Blood-Cooling Charm slowly lowering his body temperature. Professor Quirrell had immediately dispelled the Charm, cast stabilizing spells on Mr&nbsp;Malfoy, and levitated him to his office to Floo him to St. Mungo’s for further treatment. After this, Professor Quirrell had informed the Headmaster, stating the facts briefly before vanishing through the Floo; the Aurors, notified by St. Mungo’s, had demanded his presence for questioning.</p>

    <p>The clear intent of the Blood-Cooling Charm had been to kill Draco Malfoy so slowly that the wards of Hogwarts, set to detect sudden injury, would not trigger. Under interrogation, Professor Quirrell had told the Aurors that he had cast several tracking Charms upon Mr&nbsp;Malfoy’s person in January, shortly after Mr&nbsp;Malfoy’s return to Hogwarts from the Christmas holidays. Professor Quirrell had cast tracking Charms because he had learned of a person with a motive to harm Mr&nbsp;Malfoy. Professor Quirrell had refused to identify this person. The tracking Charms which Professor Quirrell had cast were triggered by Mr&nbsp;Malfoy’s health falling below an absolute level, rather than by sudden changes, and had therefore alerted Professor Quirrell before Mr&nbsp;Malfoy had died.</p>

    <p>Two drops of Veritaserum, sufficient to prevent Mr&nbsp;Malfoy from withholding any meliorating or moderating information in his statements, had shown that Mr&nbsp;Malfoy had – legally under the laws of Noble Houses, illegally under the regulations of Hogwarts – challenged Hermione Granger to a duel. Mr&nbsp;Malfoy had won the duel but had then, as he left, been attacked from behind by Miss&nbsp;Granger with a Stunning Hex. After this Mr&nbsp;Malfoy knew nothing.</p>

    <p>Three drops of Veritaserum, requiring her to volunteer all relevant information, had caused Hermione Granger to confess that she had stunned Draco Malfoy from behind, and then, in a fit of anger, cast the Blood-Cooling Charm on him, with the deliberate intention of killing him slowly enough to evade identification from the Hogwarts wards, whose workings she had read about in <i>Hogwarts: A History</i>. She had been horrified at herself upon awakening the next morning, but had not told anyone of what she’d done, believing Draco Malfoy to be already dead – as he certainly would have been after seven hours, had his body’s own magic not been resisting the effects of the Blood-Cooling Charm.</p>

    <p>‘Her trial,’ said Albus Dumbledore, ‘is set for tomorrow at noon.’</p>

    <p><em>‘What?’</em> the word burst out of Harry Potter. The Boy-Who-Lived didn’t rise from his chair, but Minerva saw his fingers whiten where they gripped the wooden seat beneath him. ‘That’s insane! You can’t do a police investigation in one day&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>The Potions Master raised his voice. ‘This is not <em>Muggle</em> Britain, Mr&nbsp;Potter!’ Severus’s face was as expressionless as ever, but the bite in his voice was sharp. ‘The Aurors have an accusation under Veritaserum and a confession under Veritaserum. So far as they are concerned, the investigation is <em>done</em>.’</p>

    <p>‘Not quite,’ said Dumbledore, just as Harry seemed ready to explode. ‘I have insisted to Amelia that this matter be given the utmost scrutiny. Unfortunately, as the ill-fated duel was at midnight&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘<em>Supposed</em> duel,’ Harry said sharply.</p>

    <p>‘As the <em>supposed</em> duel was at midnight – yes, you’re quite right, Harry – it is beyond the range of any Time-Turner&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘Also <em>supposedly</em>,’ the Boy-Who-Lived said coldly. ‘And rather <em>suspiciously</em>, since the alleged murder suspect doesn’t know about Time-Turners. I hope that an invisible Auror was immediately sent back in time as far as possible to observe&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>Dumbledore inclined his head. ‘I went <em>myself,</em> Harry, the moment I heard. But by the time I reached the trophy room, Mr&nbsp;Malfoy was already unconscious and Miss&nbsp;Granger had gone&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘No,’ said Harry Potter. ‘You reached the trophy room and saw Draco unconscious. That is all you observed, Headmaster. You did not <em>observe</em> Hermione there, or watch her leave. Let us distinguish observation from inference.’ The boy’s head turned to look at her. ‘Imperius, Obliviation, False Memory Charm, Legilimency. Professor McGonagall, am I leaving out any mind-affecting spell that could have made Hermione do this or make her believe she’d done it?’</p>

    <p>‘The Confundus Charm,’ she said. And the Dark Arts had never been her study, but she knew – ‘And certain Dark rituals. But none of those could be performed in Hogwarts without alarm.’</p>

    <p>The boy nodded, his eyes still directly addressing her. ‘Which of those spells can be detected? Which would the Aurors try to detect?’</p>

    <p>‘The Confundus Charm would wear off in a few hours,’ she said, after a moment to gather her thoughts. ‘Miss&nbsp;Granger would remember the Imperius. Obliviation cannot be detected by any known means, but only a Professor could have cast that spell upon a student without alarm from the Hogwarts wards. Legilimency – can only be detected by another Legilimens, I think&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘I requested that Miss&nbsp;Granger be examined by the court Legilimens,’ said Dumbledore. ‘The examination showed&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘Do we trust him?’ said Harry.</p>

    <p>‘Her,’ said Dumbledore. ‘Sophie McJorgenson, whom I remember as an honest student of Ravenclaw, and she is bound by the Unbreakable Vow to tell the truth of what she sees&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘Could someone else be Polyjuiced as her?’ Harry Potter interrupted again. ‘What did you <em>observe,</em> Headmaster?’</p>

    <p>Albus said heavily, ‘A person who looked like Madam McJorgenson told us that a single Legilimens had lightly touched Miss&nbsp;Granger’s mind some months ago. That is from January, Harry, when I communicated with Miss&nbsp;Granger about the matter of a certain Dementor. That was expected; but what I did not expect was the rest of what Sophie found.’ The old wizard turned to gaze into the Floo fire, letting the orange flames reflect on his face. ‘As you say, Harry, a False Memory Charm is one possibility; they are, when cast perfectly, indistinguishable from true memory&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘That doesn’t surprise me,’ Harry interrupted. ‘Studies show that human memories are more or less rewritten every time we remember them&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘Harry,’ Minerva said softly, and the boy’s mouth clamped shut.</p>

    <p>The old wizard continued. ‘– but a False Memory Charm of such quality requires as much time to create as a true memory. Creating a detailed memory of ten minutes would be ten minutes’ work. And according to the court Legilimens,’ Albus’s face now seemed more tired and lined than before, ‘Miss&nbsp;Granger has been obsessing over Mr&nbsp;Malfoy since the day that Severus … yelled at her. She has been thinking of how Mr&nbsp;Malfoy might be in league with Professor Snape, how he might be planning to harm her and harm Harry – imagining it for hours every day – it would be impossible to create false memories for so much time.’</p>

    <p>‘The appearance of insanity …’ Severus murmured softly, as though he were speaking to himself. ‘<em>Could</em> it be natural? No, it is too disastrous to be pure accident; too convenient for <em>someone,</em> I have no doubt. A Muggle drug, perhaps? But that would not be enough – Miss&nbsp;Granger’s madness would have to be <em>guided</em>&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘Ah!’ Harry said suddenly. ‘I get it now. The <em>first</em> False Memory Charm was cast on Hermione after Professor Snape yelled at her, and showed, say, Draco and Professor Snape plotting to kill her. Then last night that False Memory was <em>removed</em> by Obliviation, leaving behind the memories of her obsessing about Draco for no apparent reason, at the same time she and Draco were given false memories of the duel.’</p>

    <p>Minerva blinked in astonishment. It would have been a thousand years before she thought of that possibility.</p>

    <p>The Potions Master was frowning thoughtfully, eyes intent. ‘The <em>reaction</em> to a False Memory Charm is hard to predict in advance, Mr&nbsp;Potter, without Legilimency. The subjects do not always act as expected, when they first remember the false memories. It would have been a risky ploy. But I suppose that is one way Professor Quirrell could have done it.’</p>

    <p><i>‘Professor Quirrell?’</i> said Harry. ‘What motive does <em>he</em> have to&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>The Potions Master said dryly, ‘The Defence Professor is always a suspect, Mr&nbsp;Potter. You will notice a trend, given time.’</p>

    <p>Albus raised up a hand, a silencing gesture, and their heads all turned to look at him. ‘But in this case there is another suspect,’ Albus said quietly. ‘Voldemort.’</p>

    <p>That deadliest of unspeakable words seemed to echo around the room, cancelling all the heat from the orange flames of the fireplace.</p>

    <p>‘I do not know,’ the old wizard said slowly, ‘I know all too little of the methods of Voldemort’s immortality. He searched out those books before I did, I think. All I could find were ancient tales, scattered across too many volumes for him to remove. But to find truth among many stories is also a wizard’s mastery, and this I have endeavoured to do. There is a human sacrifice, a murder, of that I am certain; committed in coldest blood, the victim dying in horror. And old, old tales of wizards possessed, doing mad deeds, claiming the names of Dark Lords thought defeated; and there is usually a device, of that Dark Lord, which they wield …’ Albus looked at Harry, the ancient eyes searching the younger. ‘I think, Harry – though you will call it only inference – that the act of murder splits the soul. That by ritual of blackest horror, the torn fragment of soul is chained to this world. To a material thing of this world. Which must be, or which then becomes, a device of power.’</p>

    <p><em>Horcrux.</em> The terrible name echoed in Minerva’s mind, though it seemed that – for what reason she did not know – Albus would not speak that word in front of Harry.</p>

    <p>‘And therefore,’ the old wizard finished quietly, ‘the remainder of the soul is bound to its chained part, lingering here when its body is destroyed. A sad and painful existence, I think it would be; less than spirit, less than the meanest ghost …’ The old wizard’s eyes were locked on Harry, who gazed back with his eyes narrowed. ‘It would take time for that mutilated soul to regain a mockery of life. That is why we have had our ten-year reprieve, I believe; why Voldemort did not return at once. But in time … that revenant would become capable of rising again.’ The old wizard spoke with grim precision. ‘It is clear, from the stories, that the Dark Lords who return by possessing another’s form, wield lesser magics than they once knew. I do not think Voldemort would be satisfied with that. He would take some other avenue to life. But Voldemort was more Slytherin than Salazar, grasping at every opportunity. He would <em>use</em> his pitiful state, <em>use</em> his power of possession, if he had reason. If he could benefit by another’s … inexplicable fury.’ Albus’s voice had fallen to almost a whisper. ‘That is what I suspect happened to Miss&nbsp;Granger.’</p>

    <p>Minerva’s throat was very dry. ‘He’s <em>here,</em>’ she gasped. ‘<em>Here,</em> in <em>Hogwarts</em>&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>And stopped, because the <em>reason</em> Voldemort had come to Hogwarts –</p>

    <p>The old wizard glanced at her only briefly, and said, still in that whisper, ‘I am sorry, Minerva, you were right.’</p>

    <p>Harry’s voice was edged. ‘Right about what?’</p>

    <p>‘Voldemort’s strongest avenue to life,’ Dumbledore said heavily. ‘The most desirable road for him, by which he would rise greater and more terrible than ever before. It is guarded here, within this castle&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘Excuse me,’ Harry said politely. ‘Are you stupid?’</p>

    <p>‘Harry,’ she said, but there was no force in her voice.</p>

    <p>‘I mean, maybe you haven’t noticed this, Headmaster Dumbledore, but this castle is full of <i>children –</i>’</p>

    <p><i>‘I had no choice!’</i> bellowed Dumbledore. The blue eyes were blazing now, beneath the half-moon spectacles. ‘I do not <em>own</em> it, that thing which Voldemort desires. It belongs to another, and is held here by <em>his</em> consent! I <em>asked</em> if it could be kept in the Department of Mysteries. But <em>he</em> would not permit that – he said it must be within the wards of Hogwarts, in the place of the Founders’ protection&nbsp;–’ Dumbledore passed his hand across his forehead. ‘No,’ the old wizard said in a quieter voice. ‘I cannot pass this blame to him. He is right. There is too much power in that thing, too much that men desire. I agreed that the trap should be laid behind the wards of Hogwarts, in the place of my own power.’ The old wizard bowed his head. ‘I knew Voldemort would worm his way here somehow, and planned to trap him. I did not think – I did not dream – that he would tarry in an enemy fortress one minute longer than he must.’</p>

    <p>‘But,’ said Severus in some puzzlement, ‘what would the Dark Lord possibly gain by killing Lucius’s only heir?’</p>

    <p>‘Point of order,’ Harry Potter said, a hard edge in his voice. ‘The motives of whoever’s behind this are not the primary issue. Our top priority at this point is that an innocent Hogwarts student is in <em>trouble!</em>’</p>

    <p>The green eyes locked with the blue, as Albus Dumbledore gazed back at the Boy-Who-Lived –</p>

    <p>‘Quite right, Mr&nbsp;Potter,’ Minerva said, she hadn’t even thought about it, the words just seemed to pop out of her lips. ‘Albus, who is watching over Miss&nbsp;Granger now?’</p>

    <p>‘Professor Flitwick has gone to her,’ the Headmaster said.</p>

    <p>‘She needs a <em>lawyer,</em>’ Harry said. ‘Anyone who just blurts out “I did it” to the police&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘Unfortunately,’ Minerva said, her tone taking on some of Professor Dumbledore’s sternness without thinking, ‘I doubt an attorney will be any use to Miss&nbsp;Granger at this point, Mr&nbsp;Potter. She is to face the judgement of the Wizengamot, and they would be exceedingly unlikely to free her on a technicality.’</p>

    <p>Harry was looking at her with an utterly incredulous expression, as though suggesting that Hermione Granger didn’t need an attorney was akin to suggesting that she be set on fire.</p>

    <p>‘She is correct, Mr&nbsp;Potter,’ Severus said quietly. ‘Few court processes in this country involve solicitors.’</p>

    <p>Harry lifted his glasses and rubbed his eyes, briefly. ‘Fine. How do we get Hermione off the hook, exactly? I suppose it’s too much to hope that with all the lawyers gone, the judges understand the concept of “common sense” and “prior probability” well enough to realize that twelve-year-old girls basically never commit cold-blooded murders?’</p>

    <p>‘It is the Wizengamot that she faces,’ said Severus. ‘The oldest Noble Houses, and certain other wizards of influence.’ Severus’s face twisted in something approaching his customary sarcasm. ‘As for them showing common sense – you might as well expect them to make you a bacon sandwich, Potter.’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded, his mouth set. ‘Exactly what sort of penalty is Hermione facing? Snapped wand and expulsion&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘No,’ Severus said. ‘Nothing that light. Are you wilfully misunderstanding, Potter? She is facing the <em>Wizengamot</em>. There is no set penalty. There is only the vote.’</p>

    <p>Harry Potter murmured, ‘<i>The rule of law, in complex times, has proved itself deficient; we much prefer the rule of men, it’s vastly more efficient …</i> There’s no constraining legal rules at all, then?’</p>

    <p>Light glinted off the old wizard’s half-moon glasses; he spoke carefully, and not without anger. ‘Legally, Harry, we are dealing with a blood debt from Hermione Granger to the House of Malfoy. The Lord of Malfoy proposes a repayment of that debt, and then the Wizengamot votes on his proposal. That is all.’</p>

    <p>‘But …’ Harry said slowly. ‘Lucius was Sorted into Slytherin, he’s <em>got</em> to realize that Hermione was just a pawn. Not the one he should actually be angry at. Right?’</p>

    <p>‘No, Harry Potter,’ Albus Dumbledore said heavily. ‘That is how you <em>wish</em> Lucius Malfoy would think. Lucius Malfoy himself … will not share your desire that he think that way.’</p>

    <p>Harry gazed at the Headmaster, his eyes growing colder, at the same time that Minerva herself had to clamp down harder on her own emotions, stop her pacing and try to breathe. She’d been trying not to think about it, trying to turn her thoughts away from it, but she knew. She’d known since the instant she’d heard. She could see it in Albus’s eyes –</p>

    <p>‘Is she facing capital punishment?’ Harry said quietly, and chills went all the way down Minerva’s spine at the undertones of that voice.</p>

    <p>‘No!’ Albus said. ‘No, not the Kiss, not Azkaban, not for a first-year in Hogwarts. Our country is not so lost, not yet.’</p>

    <p>‘But Lucius Malfoy,’ Severus said tonelessly, ‘certainly will not be satisfied with only snapping her wand.’</p>

    <p>‘All right,’ Harry said commandingly. ‘As I see it, we’ve got two essential lines of attack. Line one, find the real culprit. Line two, other leverage over Lucius. Professor Quirrell saved Draco’s life, does that create a blood debt from House Malfoy to him that he could redeem to cancel Hermione’s?’</p>

    <p>Minerva blinked in astonishment again.</p>

    <p>‘No,’ Dumbledore said. The old wizard shook his head. ‘It was a clever thought – but no, Harry, I’m afraid not. There is an exception when the Wizengamot suspects that the circumstances of a life-debt may have been created deliberately. And the Defence Professor is hardly above suspicion. Thus Lucius would argue.’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded once, face set. ‘Headmaster, I know I said I wouldn’t – but under the circumstances – that time Draco cast that torture hex on me, is that debt enough&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘No,’ the old wizard said (even as she blurted <em>‘What?’</em> and Severus lifted an eyebrow). ‘It would not have been enough, and now it is no debt at all. You are an Occlumens and cannot testify under Veritaserum. Draco Malfoy could be Obliviated of his own memory before he could testify&nbsp;–’ Albus hesitated. ‘Harry … whatever you have done with Draco, you must assume that Lucius Malfoy will soon know of it.’</p>

    <p>Harry’s head sank into his hands. ‘He’ll give Draco Veritaserum.’</p>

    <p>‘Yes,’ Albus said quietly.</p>

    <p>The Boy-Who-Lived didn’t say anything, as he sat with his head in his hands.</p>

    <p>The Potions Master looked genuinely shocked. ‘Draco really <em>was</em> trying to help Miss&nbsp;Granger,’ Severus said. ‘You – Potter, you <i>actually –</i>’</p>

    <p>‘Turned him?’ Harry said from between his hands. ‘I was about three-quarters done. Taught him the Patronus Charm and everything. I don’t know what will happen now, though.’</p>

    <p>‘Voldemort has struck a grave blow against us, this day,’ Albus said. The sound of old wizard’s voice was like the look of the boy with his head in his hands. ‘He has taken two of our pieces, with one … No. I should have seen it earlier. He has taken two of <em>Harry’s</em> pieces with one move. Voldemort has begun his game again, not against myself, but against <em>Harry</em>. Voldemort knows the prophecy, he knows who his last foe shall be. He is not waiting to face Hermione Granger and Draco Malfoy at Harry’s side when they are grown. He is striking at them <em>now</em>.’</p>

    <p>‘Maybe it’s You-Know-Who and maybe it isn’t,’ Harry said, his voice sounding a little unsteady. ‘Let’s not narrow down the hypothesis space prematurely.’ Harry took a breath and lowered his hands. ‘The other thing we can try is to nail the real culprit before the trial – or at least find solid evidence that <em>someone</em> else did it.’</p>

    <p>‘Mr&nbsp;Potter,’ said Minerva, ‘Professor Quirrell told the Aurors that he knew of someone with a motive to harm Mr&nbsp;Malfoy. Do <em>you</em> know who he was talking about?’</p>

    <p>‘Yes,’ Harry said, after a hesitation. ‘But I think I shall conduct that part of my investigation with the Defence Professor – just as I would not have Professor Quirrell in the room while we were discussing how to investigate <em>him.</em>’</p>

    <p>‘He suspects me?’ Severus said, then gave a short laugh. ‘Why, of course he does.’</p>

    <p>‘My own plan,’ said Harry, ‘is to go and look at the trophy room where the supposed duel took place and see if I can discover anything anomalous. If you can tell the investigating Aurors to let me through&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘What investigating Aurors?’ Severus said tonelessly.</p>

    <p>Harry Potter took a deep breath, slowly let it out, and then spoke again. ‘In mystery books it usually takes longer than one day to solve a crime, but twenty-four hours is – no, <em>thirty</em> hours is eighteen hundred minutes. And I can think of at least one other important place to look for clues – though it’ll have to be someone who can get into the Ravenclaw girls’ dorm. Back when Hermione was fighting bullies, she was finding notes under her pillow each morning, telling her where to go&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p><i>‘Albus …’</i> ground out Minerva.</p>

    <p>‘I did not send them,’ said the old wizard. His white eyebrows had lifted in surprise. ‘I knew nothing of this. You think she was being played, Harry?’</p>

    <p>‘It’s a possibility,’ Harry said. ‘More so, because there’s a part of this puzzle that you don’t know about yet.’ Harry’s voice lowered, grew more intense. ‘Headmaster, you already know that I got my father’s invisibility cloak from someone who left a note under my pillow, saying it was an early Christmas present. I think we have to assume that’s the same person who left notes for Hermione&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘Harry,’ the old wizard said, and hesitated momentarily. ‘Returning your father’s cloak to you, does not seem to me like the act of a villain&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘<em>Listen</em>,’ Harry Potter said urgently. ‘The part you <em>don’t</em> know is that after Bellatrix Black escaped from Azkaban, I found another note under my pillow, signed “Santa Claus”, saying that they’d heard you were shutting me up inside Hogwarts, and that they were giving me an escape route to the Salem Witches’ Institute in America. That note came with a deck of cards, in which the King of Hearts was supposedly a portkey&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p><em>‘Mr&nbsp;Potter!’</em> cried Professor McGonagall, she hadn’t even thought before she spoke. ‘That could well be a <i>kidnapping attempt!</i> You should have told – ’</p>

    <p>‘<em>Yes</em>, Professor, I did the sensible thing,’ the boy said levelly. ‘As <i>adapted to the circumstances</i>, I did the sensible thing. I told Professor Quirrell. And according to Professor Quirrell, that portkey goes to somewhere in London – it’s definitely not strong enough to be an international portkey. Now it’s <em>possible</em> that the person who sent the note is honest, and that the point in London is just a way station.’ The boy reached into his robes and took out a deck of cards, along with a folded paper note. ‘I will trust you <em>not</em> to go in guns blazing – I mean wands blazing – just in case the sender is an ally of mine, if not yours. But if this is a trap, I say we spring it <em>now</em>. And whoever it is, take them <em>alive</em> so we can exhibit them before the Wizengamot, I cannot overemphasize that part.’</p>

    <p>Severus rose from his chair, his eyes now intent, and moved toward Harry. ‘I’ll need a hair of yours for Polyjuice, Mr&nbsp;Potter&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘Let us not be hasty!’ said Albus. ‘We have not yet examined the notes sent to Miss&nbsp;Granger; there may be no resemblance after all. Severus, would you enter her dorm and see if you can find those?’</p>

    <p>Harry Potter’s eyebrows had raised, even as he stood to offer the Potions Master better access to his unruly hair. ‘You think two <em>different</em> people are running around Hogwarts leaving notes beneath pillows?’</p>

    <p>Severus gave a brief sardonic laugh, as his hand moved forward and plucked a hair, which soon was being carefully wrapped in silk. ‘Quite possibly. If I have learned anything in my tenure as Head of Slytherin, I have learned what ridiculous messes arise when there is more than one plotter and more than one plan. But Headmaster – I think Mr&nbsp;Potter is correct that I should follow this portkey and see where it leads.’</p>

    <p>Albus hesitated, and then nodded reluctantly. ‘I will speak to you before you go, then.’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Even as Harry Potter left the room for his own investigations, Severus spun on his heel and strode swiftly toward the jar of Floo powder, his cloak rising behind him with his speed. ‘I’ll get some raw Polyjuice, add the hair, and go. Headmaster, will you stand by to&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘Albus,’ Minerva said, surprised at how steady her own voice was, ‘did you leave those notes under Mr&nbsp;Potter’s pillow?’</p>

    <p>Severus’s hand halted an instant before casting Floo powder into the fire.</p>

    <p>Dumbledore nodded to her, though the accompanying smile seemed a bit hollow. ‘You know me far too well, my dear.’</p>

    <p>‘And I suppose the portkey goes to a friendly home where Mr&nbsp;Potter would be kept safe and sound until you arrived to pick him up and return him to Hogwarts?’ Her voice tight – it was sensible, she could not deny it was sensible, but somehow it seemed a little cruel.</p>

    <p>‘It would depend on the circumstances,’ the old wizard said quietly. ‘If Harry had gone so far – I might have let him make good his escape, for a time. Better to know where he was going, and ensure it was somewhere safe, with friends&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘And to think,’ said Professor McGonagall, ‘that I had thought to reprimand Mr&nbsp;Potter for not telling us about this important matter! Upbraid him for not having the sense to trust us!’ Her voice had risen in volume. ‘I shall skip that lecture, I suppose!’</p>

    <p>Severus was gazing at the Headmaster with narrowed eyes. ‘And the notes to Miss&nbsp;Granger&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘The Defence Professor, very likely,’ the old wizard said. ‘Still – that is only a guess.’</p>

    <p>‘I shall go and look for them,’ Severus said. ‘And then, I suppose, start looking for You-Know-Who.’ A frown crossed the Potions Master’s face. ‘A task which I haven’t the faintest idea of where to start. Do you know of any magics to find a soul, Headmaster?’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>The Divination classroom was lit by the dim red light of a hundred small fires where burned a hundred kinds of incense, so that if you were to ask for one word describing what the room looked like, the answer would be <i class="q">smoke</i>. (Assuming you bothered to look at anything, when your nose was threatening to overload and die.) If your gaze could pierce those dank mists, you would see a tiny, cluttered room in which forty stuffed armchairs, most of them unused, were crammed around a small open space in the centre of the room, where a circular trapdoor waited on your escape.</p>

    <p>‘The grim!’ Professor Trelawney said in a quavering voice, as she peered into George Weasley’s teacup. ‘The grim! It is a sign of death! One whom you know, George – someone you know is to die! And soon – yes, it shall be quite soon, I think – unless of course it is later&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>It would have been a good deal scarier, thought Fred and George, if she hadn’t said the same thing to every single other student in their Divination class. They were hardly even thinking about it at this point; all their thoughts were on today’s disaster –</p>

    <p>The trapdoor in the floor flew open with a bang that caused Professor Trelawney to shriek and spill George’s tea all over his robes, and then an instant later Dumbledore was whooshing up out of the floor with a bird of fire upon his shoulder.</p>

    <p>‘Fred!’ the old wizard said commandingly. His robes were the black of a moonless night, his eyes hard like blue diamonds. ‘George! With me, now!’</p>

    <p>There was an collective gasp and by the time Fred and George were climbing down the ladder after the Headmaster, the entire class was already speculating what role they’d played in the attempted murder of Draco Malfoy.</p>

    <p>The trapdoor had hardly slammed shut above them before all nearby sounds muted and the old wizard spun on them and held out a hand and commanded, ‘Give me the map!’</p>

    <p>‘M-map?’ said Fred or George in total shock. They’d never even suspected that Dumbledore suspected. ‘Why, w-we don’t know what you’re&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘Hermione Granger is in trouble,’ said the old wizard.</p>

    <p>‘The Map is in our dorm,’ George or Fred said immediately. ‘Just give us a few minutes to get it and we’ll&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>The wizard’s arms swept them up as if they were hugging-pillows, there was a piercing cry and a flash of fire and then the three of them were in the third-year Gryffindor boys’ dorm.</p>

    <p>A few moments later, Fred and George were handing over the Map to the Headmaster, wincing only slightly at the sacrilege of giving their precious piece of the Hogwarts security system to the person who actually owned it, and the old wizard was frowning at the apparent blankness.</p>

    <p>‘You’ve got to say,’ they explained, <i>‘I solemnly swear that I am up to no good&nbsp;–’</i></p>

    <p>‘I decline to lie,’ said the old wizard. He held the Map high and bellowed, ‘Hear me, Hogwarts! <i>Deligitor prodi!</i>’ An instant later the Headmaster was wearing the Sorting Hat, which looked <i>scarily right</i> upon his head, as though Dumbledore had always been waiting for a patchwork pointed hat to complete his existence.</p>

    <p>(Fred and George immediately memorized this phrase, just in case it would work for somebody besides the Headmaster, and began trying to think of pranks that would involve the Sorting Hat.)</p>

    <p>The old wizard wasted not a moment before sweeping the Sorting Hat off his head and turning it upside-down – it was hard to tell with the Hat upside-down, but it looked a bit cross at the treatment – and then plunged in his hand and drew out a crystal rod. With this instrument he began tracing rune-like patterns on the Map, muttering strange incantations that sounded not quite like Latin and echoed in their ears in an unusually creepy fashion. In the midst of tracing one rune he looked up at both of them, fixing them with a sharp glare. ‘I will return this to you later, sons of Weasley. Go back to class.’</p>

    <p>‘Yes, Headmaster,’ they said, and hesitated. ‘Ah – about Hermione Granger, is she really going to be bound to serve Draco Malfoy forever as his&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p><em>‘Go,’</em> said the old wizard.</p>

    <p>They went.</p>

    <p>When he was alone in the room, the old wizard looked down at the map, which had now written upon itself a fine line drawing of the Gryffindor dorms in which they stood, the small handwritten <i>Albus P.W.B. Dumbledore</i> the only name left therein.</p>

    <p>The old wizard smoothed the map, bent over it, and whispered, ‘Find Tom Riddle.’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>The interrogation room at the Department of Magical Law Enforcement was usually lit by a small orange light, so that the Auror interrogating you would be leaning toward your uncomfortable metal chair with most of their face in shadow, preventing you from reading their expression, even as they read yours.</p>

    <p>As soon as Mr&nbsp;Quirrell had entered the room, the small orange light had dimmed and begun flickering like a candle about to be blown out by the wind. The room was now lit by a sourceless ice-coloured glow which illuminated all of Mr&nbsp;Quirrell’s pale skin like alabaster, except, somehow, his eyes, which stayed in darkness.</p>

    <p>The Auror on duty outside had surreptitiously tried to dispel this effect four times without the slightest success, despite the fact that Mr&nbsp;Quirrell had politely surrendered his wand upon being detained for interrogation, and had shown no sign of speaking any incantations nor exerting any other power.</p>

    <p>‘Quirinus … Quirrell,’ drawled the man now sitting across from where the Defence Professor had waited courteously. The interrogator had tawny hair that swept back like a lion’s mane, with yellowish eyes set into the sternly lined face of a man late in his tenth decade. The man was, at this moment, leafing through a large folder of parchments that he had taken from a black and very solid-looking briefcase after he had limped into the room and sat down, seeming not to look at the face of the man he was interrogating. He had not introduced himself.</p>

    <p>After some further leafing through parchments, carried out in silence, the Auror spoke again. ‘Born the 26th of September, 1955, to Quondia Quirrell, of an acknowledged tryst with Lirinus Lumblung …’ intoned the Auror. ‘Sorted into Ravenclaw … O.W.L.s quite good … N.E.W.T.s in Charms, Transfiguration … an Outstanding in Muggle Studies, impressive … Ancient Runes, and ah yes, Defence. An Outstanding in that as well. Went on to become quite the tourist, visiting all sorts of places. Portkey visas for Transylvania, the Forbidden Empire, the City of Endless Night … my my, <em>Texas</em>.’ The man looked up from the portfolio, eyes narrowed. ‘What were you doing <em>there</em>, Mr&nbsp;Quirrell?’</p>

    <p>‘Sightseeing, mostly in the Muggle areas,’ the Defence Professor said easily. ‘As you say, I am quite the tourist.’</p>

    <p>The man listened to this with a frown, then looked back down, then up again. ‘I also see that you visited Fuyuki City in 1983.’</p>

    <p>The Defence Professor lifted an eyebrow in mild puzzlement. ‘What of it?’</p>

    <p>‘What did you do in Fuyuki City?’ The question snapped out razor-sharp.</p>

    <p>The Defence Professor frowned slightly. ‘Nothing of any account. I visited some better-known sights, some less-known sights, and aside from that, kept to myself.’</p>

    <p>‘Really?’ the Auror said softly. ‘I find that reply rather interesting.’</p>

    <p>‘How so?’ said the Defence Professor.</p>

    <p>‘Because there was no visa listed for Fuyuki City.’ The man slammed the folder shut. ‘You’re not Quirinus Quirrell. Who the <em>hell</em> are you?’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>The Potions Master walked quietly into the Ravenclaw girls’ dorm, the first-year dorm, a festive place where bronze and blue competed to be the colour of stuffed animals, scarves and dresses, small bits of inexpensive jewellery, and posters of famous people. Hermione Granger’s bed was easy to identify; it was the one that had been attacked by a book monster.</p>

    <p>Nobody else seemed to be around, at that time of day, and a number of spells verified this.</p>

    <p>The Potions Master searched under Hermione Granger’s pillow, and beneath her bed, and then began going through her trunk, sorting through mentionable and unmentionable items without change of expression, and finally succeeded in drawing forth a set of papers describing places and times where bullies would be found, all of the papers signed only with an elaborate <i class="q">S</i>.</p>

    <p>A brief burst of fire later, the papers were gone, and the Potions Master left to report the failure of his mission.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>The Defence Professor was sitting calmly with his hands still folded in his lap. ‘If you consult Headmaster Dumbledore,’ said the Defence Professor, ‘you will find that he is well aware of this matter, and that I agreed to teach his Defence class on the explicit condition that no inquiry be made into my&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>In a lightning motion, the interrogator whipped out his wand and spat <i>‘Polyfluis Reverso!’</i> at the same time that the Defence Professor sneezed, which somehow caused the mirror-silvered ray to disrupt in a shower of white sparks.</p>

    <p>‘Pardon me,’ the Defence Professor said politely.</p>

    <p>The smile that the Auror gave had absolutely no mirth in it. ‘So where’s the real Quirinus Quirrell, eh? Under an Imperius in the bottom of a trunk somewhere, while you take a hair now and then for your illegal Polyjuice?’</p>

    <p>‘You are making highly questionable assumptions,’ the Defence Professor said with an edged voice. ‘What makes you think I did not steal his body outright using incredibly Dark magic?’</p>

    <p>This was followed by a certain pause.</p>

    <p>‘I suggest,’ the Auror said, ‘that you take this seriously, Mr&nbsp;Whoever-You-Are.’</p>

    <p>‘I’m sorry,’ said the Defence Professor, leaning back in his chair, ‘but I see little reason to humble myself on this particular occasion. What are you going to do, kill me?’</p>

    <p>‘I don’t appreciate your humour,’ the Auror said softly.</p>

    <p>‘How unfortunate for you, Rufus Scrimgeour,’ said the Defence Professor. ‘You have my deepest sympathy.’ He tilted his head, seeming to study the interrogator; and even within the shadow of the ice-light, the eyes glinted.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Padma stared down at her plate.</p>

    <p>‘Hermione wouldn’t just <em>do</em> that!’ yelled Mandy Brocklehurst, who was practically in tears, in fact she <em>was</em> in tears, her voice would have been loud enough to silence the Great Hall if it hadn’t been for all the other students also screaming at each other. ‘I – I bet Malfoy tried to – to <em>do</em> things to her&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘Our General would <em>never</em> do that!’ Kevin Entwhistle yelled even louder than Mandy.</p>

    <p>‘Of course he would!’ shouted Anthony Goldstein. ‘Malfoy’s the son of a <i>Death Eater!</i>’</p>

    <p>Padma stared down at her plate.</p>

    <p>Draco was the General of her army.</p>

    <p>Hermione was the founder of <abbr>S.P.H.E.W.</abbr></p>

    <p>Draco had trusted her to be his second-in-command.</p>

    <p>Hermione was her fellow Ravenclaw.</p>

    <p>Both of them were her friends, maybe the two best friends she had.</p>

    <p>Padma stared down at her plate. She was glad the Sorting Hat hadn’t offered her Hufflepuff. If she’d been Sorted into Hufflepuff it would probably have been much more painful, trying to decide where her divided loyalties lay …</p>

    <p>She blinked and realized that her vision had blurred again, and raised a trembling hand to wipe once more at her eyes.</p>

    <p>Morag MacDougal snorted so loudly it was audible even amid the pandemonium of lunch, and said in a loud voice, ‘I bet Granger <em>cheated</em> in her battle yesterday, I bet that’s why Malfoy challenged her&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘All of you <i class="shout">Shut up!</i>’ roared Harry Potter, as he hit the table with his fists so hard that plates rattled all the way along it.</p>

    <p>At any other time that would have earned him a Professorial reprimand; this time it just got a few nearby students to look.</p>

    <p>‘I’d wanted to eat lunch,’ Harry Potter said, ‘and then get back to investigating, so I wasn’t going to talk. But you’re all being <em>silly</em>, and when the truth comes out you’re going to regret what you said about innocent people. Draco didn’t do anything, Hermione didn’t do anything, they were both False-Memory-Charmed!’ Harry Potter’s voice had been rising on the last words. <i>‘How is that not <span class="shout">BLOODY OBVIOUS?</span>’</i></p>

    <p>‘You think we’ll believe <em>that?</em>’ Kevin Entwhistle yelled right back at him. ‘That’s what everyone says! “I didn’t do it, it was all just a False Memory Charm!” You think we’re <em>stupid?</em>’</p>

    <p>And Morag nodded right along with him, with a condescending look.</p>

    <p>The look that came over Harry Potter’s face then made Padma flinch.</p>

    <p>‘I see,’ Harry Potter said; it wasn’t a shout, so Padma had to strain to hear it. ‘Professor Quirrell isn’t here to explain to me how stupid people are, but I bet this time I can get it on my own. People do something dumb and get caught and are given Veritaserum. Not romantic master criminals, because <em>they</em> wouldn’t get caught, <em>they</em> would have learned Occlumency. Sad, pathetic, incompetent criminals get caught, and confess under Veritaserum, and they’re desperate to stay out of Azkaban so they say they were False-Memory-Charmed. Right? So your brain, by sheer Pavlovian association, links the idea of False Memory Charms to pathetic criminals with unbelievable excuses. You don’t have to consider the specific details, your brain just <em>pattern-matches</em> the hypothesis into a bucket of things you don’t believe, and you’re done. Just like my father thought that magical hypotheses could never be believed, because he’d heard so many stupid people talking about magic. Believing a hypothesis that involves False Memory Charms is <em>low-status</em>.’</p>

    <p>‘What are you <em>blithering</em> about?’ said Morag, looking down her nose at the Boy-Who-Lived.</p>

    <p>‘You think we’d believe anything <em>you</em> say?’ yelled a slightly older-looking Ravenclaw witch who Padma didn’t recognize. ‘When <em>you</em> turned Granger Dark?’</p>

    <p>‘And I’m not going to complain,’ Harry Potter said in an eerily calm voice, ‘about wizards not having any logic and believing the craziest things. Because I said that to Professor Quirrell once, and he just gave me this <em>look</em> and said that if I wasn’t blinded by my upbringing I could think of a hundred more ridiculous things that lots of Muggles believe. What you’re all doing is very human and very normal and doesn’t make you <em>unusually</em> bad people, so I’m not going to complain.’ The Boy-Who-Lived rose up from his bench. ‘I’ll see you all later.’</p>

    <p>And Harry Potter walked away from them, walked away from all of them.</p>

    <p>‘You’re not thinking he’s <em>right,</em> are you?’ said Su Li from beside her, in a tone which made it clear what <em>she</em> thought.</p>

    <p>‘I&nbsp;–’ said Padma. Her words seemed to be caught in her throat, her thoughts seemed to be caught in her head. ‘I – I mean – I&nbsp;–’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>If you think hard enough you can do the impossible.</p>

    <p>(It had always been an article of faith with Harry. There’d been a time when he’d acknowledged the laws of physics as ultimate limitations, and now he suspected there were no true limits at all.)</p>

    <p>If you think <em>fast</em> enough you can sometimes do the impossible <em>quickly</em> …</p>

    <p>… sometimes.</p>

    <p>Only sometimes.</p>

    <p>Not always.</p>

    <p>Not <em>reliably</em>.</p>

    <p>The Boy-Who-Lived stared around the trophy room, surrounded by awards and cups and plates and shields and statues and medals kept behind thousands, perhaps tens of thousands, of crystal glass displays. For as many centuries as Hogwarts had existed, this room had been accumulating details. A week, a month, maybe even a year, wouldn’t have sufficed to take the <i class="q">examine</i> option on every item in the room. With Professor Flitwick gone, Harry had asked Professor Vector if there was any way to detect damage to the wards around the crystal cases, verify the residue that a real duel should have left behind. Harry had raced through the Hogwarts library looking for spells to tell the difference between old fingerprints and new fingerprints, or to detect lingering exhalations in a room. And all those attempts at playing detective had failed.</p>

    <p>There were no clues, none that he was smart enough to find.</p>

    <p>Professor Snape had said that the portkey led to an empty house in London, with no sign of anyone or anything else.</p>

    <p>Professor Snape hadn’t found any notes in Hermione’s dorm.</p>

    <p>Headmaster Dumbledore had said that Voldemort’s spirit was probably hiding out in the Chamber of Secrets where the Hogwarts security system couldn’t find him. Harry had sneaked into the Slytherin dungeons under the Cloak of Invisibility and spent the rest of the afternoon looking through all the obvious places, but he hadn’t found anything snaky that answered back when spoken to. The entrance to the Chamber of Secrets, it seemed, hadn’t been meant to be found in a day.</p>

    <p>Harry had talked to all of Hermione’s friends that would still talk to him, and none of them had remembered Hermione saying anything specific about why she’d believed that Draco was plotting against her.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell hadn’t come back from the Ministry as of dinnertime. The older students seemed to think that this year’s Defence Professor would probably end up being blamed for the incident, and fired for teaching Hogwarts students to be too violent. They’d talked about the Defence Professor as though he were already gone.</p>

    <p>Harry had used up all six hours from his Time-Turner, and there were still no clues, and he had to go to sleep now if he wanted to be functional at Hermione’s trial the next day.</p>

    <p>The Boy-Who-Destroyed-A-Dementor was standing in the middle of the Hogwarts trophy room, his wand dropped at his feet.</p>

    <p>He was crying.</p>

    <p>Sometimes you call your brain and it doesn’t answer.</p>

    <p>The trial of Hermione Granger started on schedule the next day.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>