<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
  <h1>The Scientific Method</h1>

  <div class="calibre1">
  
    <p>A small study room, near but not in the Ravenclaw dorm, one of the many many unused rooms of Hogwarts. Grey stone the floors, red brick the walls, dark stained wood the ceiling, four glowing glass globes set into the four walls of the room. A circular table that looked like a wide slab of black marble set on thick black marble legs for columns, but which had proved to be very light (weight and mass both) and wasn’t difficult to pick up and move around if necessary. Two comfortably cushioned chairs which had seemed at first to be locked to the floor in inconvenient places, but which would, the two of them had finally discovered, scoot around to where you stood as soon as you leaned over in a posture that looked like you were about to sit down.</p>

    <p>There also seemed to be a number of bats flying around the room.</p>

    <p>That was where, future historians would one day record – <em>if</em> the whole project ever actually amounted to anything – the scientific study of magic had begun, with two young first-year Hogwarts students.</p>

    <p>Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, theorist.</p>

    <p>And Hermione Jean Granger, experimenter and test subject.</p>

    <p>Harry was doing better in classes now, at least the classes he considered interesting. He’d read more books, and not books for eleven-year-olds either. He’d practised Transfiguration over and over during one of his extra hours every day, taking the other hour for beginning Occlumency. He was taking the worthwhile classes <em>seriously,</em> not just turning in his homework every day, but using his free time to learn more than was required, to read other books beyond the given textbooks, looking to master the subject and not just memorize a few test answers, to excel. You didn’t see that much outside Ravenclaw. And now even <em>within</em> Ravenclaw, his only remaining competitors were Padma Patil (whose parents came from a non-English-speaking culture and thus had raised her with an actual work ethic), Anthony Goldstein (out of a certain tiny ethnic group that won 25% of the Nobel Prizes), and of course, striding far above everyone like a Titan strolling through a pack of puppies, Hermione Granger.</p>

    <p>To run this particular experiment you needed the test subject to learn sixteen new spells, on their own, without help or correction. That meant the test subject was Hermione. Period.</p>

    <p>It should be mentioned at this point that the bats flying around the room were <em>not</em> glowing.</p>

    <p>Harry was having trouble accepting the implications of this.</p>

    <p><i>‘Oogely boogely!’</i> Hermione said again.</p>

    <p>Again, at the tip of Hermione’s wand, a bat abruptly appeared. One moment, empty air. The next moment, bat. Its wings seemed to be already moving in the instant when it appeared.</p>

    <p>And it <i>still wasn’t glowing.</i></p>

    <p>‘Can I stop now?’ said Hermione.</p>

    <p>‘Are you sure,’ Harry said through what seemed to be a block in his throat, ‘that maybe with a bit more practise you couldn’t get it to glow?’ He was violating the experimental procedure he’d written down beforehand, which was a sin, and he was violating it because he didn’t like the results he was getting, which was a <em>mortal</em> sin, you could go to Science Hell for that, but it didn’t seem to be mattering anyway.</p>

    <p>‘What did you change this time?’ Hermione said, sounding a little weary.</p>

    <p>‘The durations of the <i>oo, eh,</i> and <em>ee</em> sounds. It’s supposed to be 3 to 2 to 2, not 3 to 1 to 1.’</p>

    <p><i>‘Oogely boogely!’</i> said Hermione.</p>

    <p>The bat materialized with only one wing and spun pathetically to the floor, flopping around in a circle on the grey stone.</p>

    <p>‘Now what is it really?’ said Hermione.</p>

    <p>‘3 to 2 to 1.’</p>

    <p><i>‘Oogely boogely!’</i></p>

    <p>This time the bat didn’t have any wings at all and fell with a plop like a dead mouse.</p>

    <p>‘3 to 1 to 2.’</p>

    <p>And lo the bat did materialize and it did fly up at once toward the ceiling, healthy and glowing a bright green.</p>

    <p>Hermione nodded in satisfaction. ‘Okay, what next?’</p>

    <p>There was a long pause.</p>

    <p>‘<i>Seriously?</i> You <em>seriously</em> have to say <i>Oogely boogely</i> with the duration of the <i>oo, eh,</i> and <em>ee</em> sounds having a ratio of 3 to 1 to 2, or the bat won’t glow? <i>Why? Why? For the love of all that is sacred, why?</i>’</p>

    <p>‘Why not?’</p>

    <p><em>‘Aaaaaaaaarrrrrrghhhh!’</em></p>

    <p class="thought">Thud. Thud. Thud.</p>

    <p>Harry had thought about the nature of magic for a while, and then designed a series of experiments based on the premise that virtually everything wizards believed about magic was wrong.</p>

    <p>You couldn’t <em>really</em> need to say “Wingardium Leviosa” in exactly the right way in order to levitate something, because, come on, “Wingardium Leviosa”? The universe was going to check that you said <i class="q">Wingardium Leviosa</i> in exactly the right way and otherwise it wouldn’t make the quill float?</p>

    <p>No. Obviously no, once you thought about it seriously. Someone, quite possibly an actual preschool child, but at any rate some English-speaking magic user, who thought that <i class="q">Wingardium Leviosa</i> sounded all flappy and floaty, had originally spoken those words while casting the spell for the first time. And then told everyone else it was necessary.</p>

    <p>But (Harry had reasoned) it didn’t <em>have</em> to be that way, it wasn’t built into the universe, it was built into <em>you</em>.</p>

    <p>There was an old story passed down among scientists, a cautionary tale, the story of Blondlot and the N-Rays.</p>

    <p>Shortly after the discovery of X-Rays, an eminent French physicist named Prosper-René Blondlot – who had been first to measure the speed of radio waves and show that they propagated at the speed of light – had announced the discovery of an amazing new phenomenon, N-Rays, which would induce a faint brightening of a screen. You had to look hard to see it, but it was there. N-Rays had all sorts of interesting properties. They were bent by aluminium and could be focused by an aluminium prism into striking a treated thread of cadmium sulphide, which would then glow faintly in the dark …</p>

    <p>Soon dozens of other scientists had confirmed Blondlot’s results, especially in France.</p>

    <p>But there were still other scientists, in England and Germany, who said they weren’t quite sure they could see that faint glow.</p>

    <p>Blondlot had said they were probably setting up the machinery wrong.</p>

    <p>One day Blondlot had given a demonstration of N-Rays. The lights had turned out, and his assistant had called off the brightening and darkening as Blondlot performed his manipulations.</p>

    <p>It had been a normal demonstration, all the results going as expected.</p>

    <p>Even though an American scientist named Robert Wood had quietly stolen the aluminium prism from the centre of Blondlot’s mechanism.</p>

    <p>And that had been the end of N-Rays.</p>

    <p><i>Reality,</i> Philip K. Dick had once said, <i>is that which, when you stop believing in it, doesn’t go away.</i></p>

    <p>Blondlot’s sin had been obvious in retrospect. He shouldn’t have told his assistant what he was doing. Blondlot should have made sure the assistant <em>didn’t</em> know what was being tried or when it was being tried, before asking him to describe the screen’s brightness. It could have been that simple.</p>

    <p>Nowadays it was called ‘blinding’ and it was one of the things modern scientists took for granted. If you were doing a psychology experiment to see whether people got angrier when they were hit over the head with red truncheons than with green truncheons, you didn’t get to look at the subjects yourself and decide how ‘angry’ they were. You would snap photos of them after they’d been hit with the truncheon, and send the photos off to a panel of raters, who would rate on a scale of 1 to 10 how angry each person looked, obviously <i>without</i> knowing what colour of truncheon they’d been hit with. Indeed there was no good reason to tell the raters what the experiment was about, at all. You <i>certainly</i> wouldn’t tell the experimental subjects that <i>you thought</i> they ought to be angrier when hit by red truncheons. You’d just offer them 20 pounds, lure them into a test room, hit them with a truncheon, colour randomly assigned of course, and snap the photo. In fact the truncheon-hitting and photo-snapping would be done by an assistant who hadn’t been told about the hypothesis, so he couldn’t look expectant, hit harder, or snap the photo at just the right time.</p>

    <p>Blondlot had destroyed his reputation with the sort of mistake that would get a failing grade and probably derisive laughter from the T.A. in a first-year undergraduate course on experimental design … in 1991.</p>

    <p>But this had been a bit longer ago, in 1904, and so it had taken months before Robert Wood had formulated the obvious alternative hypothesis and figured out how to test it, and dozens of other scientists had been sucked in.</p>

    <p>More than two centuries after science had got started. That late in scientific history, it still hadn’t been obvious.</p>

    <p>Which made it <em>entirely</em> plausible that in the tiny wizarding world, where science didn’t seem much known at all, no one had ever tried the first, the simplest, the most obvious thing that any modern scientist would think to check.</p>

    <p>The books were full of complicated instructions for all the things you had to do <i>exactly right</i> in order to cast a spell. And, Harry had hypothesized, the process of obeying those instructions, of checking that you were following them correctly, probably <i>did</i> do something. It <i>forced you to concentrate on the spell</i>. Being told to just wave your wand and wish probably <em>wouldn’t</em> work as well. And once you believed the spell was supposed to work a certain way, once you had practised it that way, you might not be able to convince yourself that it could work any <em>other</em> way …</p>

    <p>… if you did the simple but wrong thing, and tried to test alternative forms <em>yourself.</em></p>

    <p>But what if you <i>didn’t know</i> what the original spell had been like?</p>

    <p>What if you gave Hermione a list of spells she hadn’t studied yet, taken from a book of silly prank spells in the Hogwarts library, and some of those spells had the correct and original instructions, while others had one changed gesture, one changed word? What if you kept the instructions constant, but told her that a spell supposed to create a red worm was supposed to create a blue worm instead?</p>

    <p>Well, in that case, it had turned out …</p>

    <p>… Harry was having trouble believing his results here …</p>

    <p>… if you told Hermione to say ‘Oogely boogely’ with the vowel durations in the ratio of 3 to 1 to 1, instead of the correct ratio of 3 to 1 to 2, you still got the bat but it wouldn’t glow any more.</p>

    <p>Not that belief was <em>irrelevant</em> here. Not that <em>only</em> the words and wand movements mattered.</p>

    <p>If you gave Hermione completely incorrect information about what a spell was supposed to do, it would stop working.</p>

    <p>If you didn’t tell her at all what the spell was supposed to do, it would stop working.</p>

    <p>If she knew in very vague terms what the spell was supposed to do, or she was only partially wrong, then the spell would work as originally described in the book, not the way she’d been told it should.</p>

    <p>Harry was, at this moment, literally banging his head against the brick wall. Not hard. He didn’t want to damage his precious brains. But if he didn’t have some outlet for his frustration, he would spontaneously catch on fire.</p>

    <p class="thought">Thud. Thud. Thud.</p>

    <p>It seemed the universe actually <em>did</em> want you to say <i class="q">Wingardium Leviosa</i> and it wanted you to say it in a certain exact way and it didn’t care what <em>you</em> thought the pronunciation should be any more than it cared how you felt about gravity.</p>

    <p><i class="shout">WHYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY?</i></p>

    <p>The worst part of it was the smug, amused look on Hermione’s face.</p>

    <p>Hermione had <em>not</em> been okay with sitting around obediently following Harry’s instructions without being told why.</p>

    <p>So Harry had explained to her what they were testing.</p>

    <p>Harry had explained why they were testing it.</p>

    <p>Harry had explained why probably no wizard had tried it before them.</p>

    <p>Harry had explained that he was actually fairly confident of his prediction.</p>

    <p>Because, Harry had said, there was <i>no way</i> that the universe actually wanted you to say <i class="q">Wingardium Leviosa</i>.</p>

    <p>Hermione had pointed out that this was not what her books said. Hermione had asked if Harry really thought he was smarter, at eleven years old and just over a month into his Hogwarts education, than all the other wizards in the world who disagreed with him.</p>

    <p>Harry had said the following exact words:</p>

    <p>‘Of course.’</p>

    <p>Now Harry was staring at the red brick directly in front of him and contemplating how hard he would have to hit his head in order to give himself a concussion that would interfere with long-term memory formation and prevent him from remembering this later. Hermione wasn’t laughing, but he could feel her <i>intent to laugh</i> radiating out from behind him like a dreadful pressure on his skin, sort of like knowing you were being stalked by a serial killer only <em>worse.</em></p>

    <p>‘Say it,’ Harry said.</p>

    <p>‘I wasn’t <em>going</em> to,’ said the kindly voice of Hermione Granger. ‘It didn’t seem nice.’</p>

    <p>‘Just get it over with,’ said Harry.</p>

    <p>‘Okay! So you gave me this <i>whole long lecture</i> about how hard it was to do basic science and how we might need to stay on the problem for <i>thirty-five years</i>, and then you went and expected us to make the greatest discovery in the history of magic in the first hour we were working together. You didn’t just hope, you really expected it. You’re silly.’</p>

    <p>‘Thank you. Now&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘I’ve read all the books you gave me and I still don’t know what to call that. Overconfidence? Planning fallacy? Super duper Lake Wobegon effect? They’ll have to name it after you. Harry Bias.’</p>

    <p>‘All <em>right!</em>’</p>

    <p>‘But it <em>is</em> cute. It’s such a boy thing to do.’</p>

    <p><i>‘Drop dead.’</i></p>

    <p>‘Aw, you say the most romantic things.’</p>

    <p class="thought">Thud. Thud. Thud.</p>

    <p>‘So what’s next?’ said Hermione.</p>

    <p>Harry rested his head against the bricks. His forehead was starting to hurt where he’d been banging it. ‘Nothing. I have to go back and design different experiments.’</p>

    <p>Over the last month, Harry had carefully worked out, in advance, a course of experimentation for them that would have lasted until December.</p>

    <p>It would have been a <i>great</i> set of experiments if the <i>very first test</i> had not falsified the basic premise.</p>

    <p>Harry could not believe he had been this dumb.</p>

    <p>‘Let me correct myself,’ said Harry. ‘I need to design <em>one</em> new experiment. I’ll let you know when we’ve got it, and we’ll do it, and then I’ll design the next one. How does that sound?’</p>

    <p>‘It sounds like <i>someone</i> wasted a <i>whole lot of effort</i>.’</p>

    <p><em>Thud.</em> Ow. He’d done that a bit harder than he’d planned.</p>

    <p>‘So,’ said Hermione. She was leaning back in her chair and the smug look was back on her face. ‘What did we discover today?’</p>

    <p>‘I discovered,’ said Harry through gritted teeth, ‘that when it comes to doing truly basic research on a genuinely confusing problem where you have no clue what’s going on, my books on scientific methodology aren’t worth crap&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Language, Mr&#160;Potter! Some of us are innocent young girls!’</p>

    <p>‘Fine. But if my books were worth a <em>carp,</em> that’s a kind of fish not anything bad, they would have given me the following important piece of advice: When there’s a confusing problem and you’re just starting out and you have a falsifiable hypothesis, go test it. Find some simple, easy way of doing a basic check and do it right away. Don’t worry about designing an elaborate course of experiments that would make a grant proposal look impressive to a funding agency. Just check as fast as possible whether your ideas are false before you start investing huge amounts of effort in them. How does that sound for a moral?’</p>

    <p>‘Mmm … okay,’ said Hermione. ‘But I was also hoping for something like “Hermione’s books aren’t worthless. They’re written by wise old wizards who know way more about magic than I do. I should pay attention to what Hermione’s books say.” Can we have that moral too?’</p>

    <p>Harry’s jaw seemed to be clenched too tightly to let any words out, so he just nodded.</p>

    <p>‘Great!’ Hermione said. ‘I liked this experiment. We learned a lot from it and it only took me an hour or so.’</p>

    <p>‘Aaaaaaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!’</p>

    <hr/>


</div>
</body>
</html>