<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
  <h1>Reductionism</h1>

  <div class="calibre1">
 
    <p>‘Okay,’ Harry said, swallowing. ‘Okay, Hermione, it’s enough, you can stop.’</p>

    <p>The white sugar pill in front of Hermione still hadn’t changed shape or colour at all, even though she was concentrating harder than Harry had ever seen, her eyes squeezed shut, beads of sweat on her forehead, hand trembling as it gripped the wand –</p>

    <p>‘Hermione, <em>stop!</em> It’s not going to work, Hermione, I don’t think we can make things that don’t exist yet!’</p>

    <p>Slowly, Hermione’s hand relaxed its grasp on the wand.</p>

    <p>‘I thought I felt it,’ she said in a bare whisper. ‘I thought I felt it start to Transfigure, just for a second.’</p>

    <p>There was a lump in Harry’s throat. ‘You were probably imagining it. Hoping too hard.’</p>

    <p>‘I probably was,’ she said. She looked like she wanted to cry.</p>

    <p>Slowly, Harry took his mechanical pencil in his hand, and reached over to the sheet of paper with all the items crossed out, and drew a line through the item that said <i class="q">Alzheimer’s cure</i>.</p>

    <p>They couldn’t have fed anyone a Transfigured pill. But Transfiguration, at least the kind they could do, didn’t enchant the targets – it wouldn’t Transfigure a regular broomstick into a flying one. So if Hermione had been able to make a pill at all, it would have been a <em>non-magical</em> pill, one that worked for ordinary material reasons. They could have secretly made pills for a Muggle science lab, let them <em>study</em> the pills and try to reverse-engineer them before the Transfiguration wore off … no one in either world would need to know that magic had been involved, it would just be another scientific breakthrough …</p>

    <p>It hadn’t been the sort of thing a wizard would think of, either. They didn’t respect mere <i>patterns of atoms</i> that much, they didn’t think of unenchanted <em>material</em> things as objects of power. If it wasn’t magical, it wasn’t interesting.</p>

    <p>Earlier, Harry had <em>very</em> secretly – he hadn’t even told Hermione – tried to Transfigure nanotechnology a la Eric Drexler. (He’d tried to produce a desktop nanofactory, of course, not tiny self-replicating assemblers, Harry wasn’t insane.) It would have been godhood in a single shot if it’d worked.</p>

    <p>‘That was it for today, right?’ said Hermione. She was slumped back in her chair, leaning her head against the back; and her face showed her tiredness, which was very unusual for Hermione. She liked to pretend she was limitless, at least when Harry was around.</p>

    <p>‘One more,’ Harry said cautiously, ‘but that one’s small, plus it might actually work. I saved it for last because I was hoping we could end on an up note. It’s real stuff, not like phasers. They’ve already made it in the laboratory, not like the Alzheimer’s cure. And it’s a generic substance, not specific like the lost books you tried to Transfigure copies of. I made a diagram of the molecular structure to show you. We just want to make it <em>longer</em> than it’s ever been made before, and with all the tubes aligned, and the endpoints embedded in diamond.’ Harry produced a sheet of graph paper.</p>

    <p>Hermione sat back up, took it, and studied it, frowning. ‘These are <em>all</em> carbon atoms? And Harry, what’s the name? I can’t Transfigure it if I don’t know what it’s called.’</p>

    <p>Harry made a disgusted face. He was still having trouble getting used to that sort of thing, it shouldn’t matter what something was <em>named</em> if you knew what it <em>was.</em> ‘They’re called buckytubes, or carbon nanotubes. It’s a kind of fullerene that was discovered just this year. It’s about a hundred times stronger than steel and a sixth of the weight.’</p>

    <p>Hermione looked up from the graph paper, her face surprised. ‘That’s <em>real?</em>’</p>

    <p>‘Yeah,’ Harry said, ‘just hard to make the Muggle way. If we could get enough of the stuff, we could use it to build a space elevator all the way up to geosynchronous orbit or higher, and in terms of delta-v that’s halfway to anywhere in the Solar System. Plus we could throw out solar power satellites like confetti.’</p>

    <p>Hermione was frowning again. ‘Is this stuff <em>safe?</em>’</p>

    <p>‘I don’t see why it wouldn’t be,’ Harry said. ‘A buckytube is just a graphite sheet wrapped into a circular tube, basically, and graphite is the same stuff used in pencils&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘I <em>know</em> what graphite is, Harry,’ Hermione said. She brushed her hair back absent-mindedly, her eyebrows furrowed as she stared at the sheet of paper.</p>

    <p>Harry reached into a pocket of his robes, and produced a white thread tied to two small grey plastic rings at either end. He’d added drops of superglue where the thread met either ring, to make it all a single object that could be Transfigured as a whole. Cyanoacrylate, if Harry remembered correctly, worked by covalent bonds, and that was as close to being a ‘solid object’ as you ever got in a world ultimately composed of tiny individual atoms. ‘When you’re ready,’ Harry said, ‘try to Transfigure this into a set of aligned buckytube fibres embedded in two solid diamond rings.’</p>

    <p>‘All right …’ Hermione said slowly. ‘Harry, I feel like I just missed something.’</p>

    <p>Harry shrugged helplessly. <i>Maybe you’re just tired.</i> He knew better than to say it out loud, though.</p>

    <p>Hermione laid her wand against one plastic ring, and stared for a while.</p>

    <p>Two small circles of glittering diamond lay on the table, connected by a long black thread.</p>

    <p>‘It changed,’ said Hermione. She sounded like she was trying to be enthusiastic but had run out of energy. ‘Now what?’</p>

    <p>Harry felt a bit deflated by his research partner’s lack of passion, but did his best not to show it; maybe the same process would work in reverse to cheer her up. ‘Now I test it to see if it holds weight.’</p>

    <p>There was an A-frame Harry had rigged up to do an earlier experiment with diamond rods – you could make solid diamond objects easily, using Transfiguration, they just wouldn’t last. The earlier experiment had measured whether Transfiguring a long diamond rod into a shorter diamond rod would allow it to lift a suspended heavy weight as it contracted, i.e., could you Transfigure against tension, which you in fact could.</p>

    <p>Harry carefully looped one circle of glittering diamond over the thick metal hook at the top of the rig, then attached a thick metal hanger to the bottom ring, and then started attaching weights to the hanger.</p>

    <p>(Harry had asked the Weasley twins to Transfigure the apparatus for him, and the Weasley twins had given him an incredulous look, like they couldn’t figure out what sort of prank he could <em>possibly</em> want that for, but they hadn’t asked any questions. And their Transfigurations, according to them, lasted for around three hours, so Harry and Hermione still had a while left.)</p>

    <p>‘One hundred kilograms,’ Harry said about a minute later. ‘I don’t think a steel thread this thin would hold that. It should go up much higher, but that’s all the weight I’ve got.’</p>

    <p>There was a further silence.</p>

    <p>Harry straightened up, and went back to their table, and sat down in his chair, and ceremoniously made a check mark next to <i class="q">Buckytubes</i>. ‘There,’ Harry said. ‘<em>That</em> one worked.’</p>

    <p>‘But it’s not really <em>useful</em>, Harry, is it?’ Hermione said from where she was sitting with her head resting in her hands. ‘I mean, even if we gave it to a scientist they couldn’t learn how to make lots of buckytubes from studying ours.’</p>

    <p>‘They might be able to learn <em>something,</em>’ Harry said. ‘Hermione, <em>look</em> at it, that little tiny thread holding up all that weight, we just made something that no Muggle laboratory could make&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘But any other witch could make it,’ Hermione said. Her exhaustion was coming into her voice, now. ‘Harry, I don’t think this is working out.’</p>

    <p>‘You mean our relationship?’ Harry said. ‘Great! Let’s break up.’</p>

    <p>That got a slight grin out of her. ‘I mean our research.’</p>

    <p>‘Oh, Hermione, how <em>could</em> you?’</p>

    <p>‘You’re sweet when you’re mean,’ she said. ‘But Harry, this is nuts, I’m twelve, you’re eleven, it’s <em>silly</em> to think we’re going to discover anything that no one’s ever figured out before.’</p>

    <p>‘Are you really saying we should give up on unravelling the secrets of magic after trying for less than one <em>month?</em>’ Harry said, trying to put a note of challenge into his voice. Honestly he was feeling some of the same fatigue as Hermione. None of the <em>good</em> ideas ever worked. He’d made just one discovery worth mentioning, the Mendelian pattern, and he couldn’t tell Hermione about it without breaking his promise to Draco.</p>

    <p>‘No,’ Hermione said. Her young face was looking very serious and adult. ‘I’m saying right now we should be <em>studying</em> all the magic that wizards already know, so we can do this sort of thing after we graduate from Hogwarts.’</p>

    <p>‘Um …’ Harry said. ‘Hermione, I hate to put it this way, but imagine we’d decided to hold off on research until later, and the first thing we tried after we graduated was Transfiguring an Alzheimer’s cure, and it <em>worked.</em> We’d feel … I don’t think the word <em>stupid</em> would adequately describe how we’d feel. What if there’s something else like that and it does work?’</p>

    <p>‘That’s not <em>fair,</em> Harry!’ Hermione said. Her voice was trembling like she was on the verge of breaking out crying. ‘You can’t <em>put</em> that on people! It’s not our <em>job</em> to do that sort of thing, we’re <em>kids!</em>’</p>

    <p>For a moment Harry wondered what would happen if someone told Hermione she had to fight an immortal Dark Lord, if she would turn into one of the whiny self-pitying heroes that Harry could never stand reading about in his books.</p>

    <p>‘Anyway,’ Hermione said. Her voice shook. ‘I don’t want to keep doing this. I don’t believe children can do things that grown-ups can’t, that’s only in stories.’</p>

    <p>There was silence in the classroom.</p>

    <p>Hermione started to look a little scared, and Harry knew that his own expression had cooled.</p>

    <p>It might not have hurt so much if the same thought hadn’t already come to Harry – that, while thirty might be old for a scientific revolutionary and twenty about right, while there were people who got doctorates when they were seventeen and fourteen-year-old heirs who’d been great kings or generals, there wasn’t really anyone who’d made the history books at eleven.</p>

    <p>‘All right,’ Harry said. ‘Figure out how to do something a grown-up can’t. Is that your challenge?’</p>

    <p>‘I didn’t mean it like that,’ Hermione said, her voice coming out in a frightened whisper.</p>

    <p>With an effort, Harry wrenched his gaze away from Hermione. ‘I’m not angry at <em>you</em>,’ Harry said. His voice was cold, despite his best efforts. ‘I’m angry at, I don’t know, everything. But I’m not willing to lose, Hermione. Losing isn’t always the right thing to do. I’ll figure out how to do something a grown wizard can’t do, and then I’ll get back to you. How’s that?’</p>

    <p>There was more silence.</p>

    <p>‘Okay,’ said Hermione, her voice wavering a little. She pushed herself up out of her chair, and went over to the door of the abandoned classroom they’d been working in. Her hand went onto the doorknob. ‘We’re still friends, right? And if you can’t figure out anything&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Her voice halted.</p>

    <p>‘Then we’ll study together,’ Harry said. His voice was even colder now.</p>

    <p>‘Um, bye for now, then,’ Hermione said, and she quickly went out of the room and shut the door behind her.</p>

    <p>Sometimes Harry hated having a dark side, even when he was inside it.</p>

    <p>And the part of him that had thought exactly the same thing as Hermione, that no, children <em>couldn’t</em> do what grown-ups couldn’t, was saying all the things that Hermione had been too frightened to say, like, <i>That’s one hell of a difficult challenge you just grabbed for yourself</i> and <i>boy are you going to end up with egg on your face this time</i> and <i>at least this way you’ll know you’ve failed.</i></p>

    <p>And the part of him that didn’t enjoy losing replied, in a very cold voice, <i>Fine, you can shut up and watch.</i></p>

    <hr/>

    <p>It was almost lunchtime, and Harry didn’t care. He hadn’t even bothered grabbing a snack bar from his pouch. His stomach could stand a little starving.</p>

    <p>The wizarding world was tiny, they didn’t think like scientists, they didn’t know science, they didn’t question what they’d grown up with, they hadn’t put protective shells on their time machines, they played Quidditch, all of magical Britain was smaller than a small Muggle city, the greatest wizarding school only educated up to the age of seventeen, <em>silly</em> wasn’t challenging that at eleven, <em>silly</em> was <em>assuming</em> wizards knew what they were doing and had already exhausted all the low-hanging fruit a scientific polymath would see.</p>

    <p>Step One had been to make a list of every magical constraint Harry could remember, all the things you supposedly couldn’t do.</p>

    <p>Step Two, mark the constraints that seemed to make the <em>least</em> sense from a scientific perspective.</p>

    <p>Step Three, prioritize constraints that a wizard would be unlikely to question if they <em>didn’t</em> know science.</p>

    <p>Step Four, come up with avenues for attacking them.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Hermione still felt a little shaky as she sat down next to Mandy at the Ravenclaw table. Hermione’s lunch had two fruits (tomato slices and peeled tangerines), three vegetables (carrots, carrots, and more carrots), one meat (fried Diricawl drumsticks whose unhealthy coating she would carefully remove), and one little piece of chocolate cake that she would earn by eating the other parts.</p>

    <p>It hadn’t been as bad as Potions class, sometimes she still had <i>nightmares</i> about that. But this time <i>she</i> had made it happen and <i>she’d felt like its target.</i> Just for a moment, before the terrible cold darkness looked away and said it wasn’t angry with her, because it hadn’t wanted to scare her.</p>

    <p>And she still had that feeling like she’d missed something earlier, something really important.</p>

    <p>But they hadn’t violated any of the rules of Transfiguration … had they? They hadn’t made any liquids, any gases, they hadn’t taken orders from the Defence Professor …</p>

    <p>The <em>pill!</em> That had been something to be eaten!</p>

    <p>… well, no, nobody would just eat a pill lying around, it hadn’t <i>worked</i> actually, they could have just <i>Finite Incantatemed</i> it if it had, but she would still have to tell Harry about that and make sure they didn’t mention it in front of Professor McGonagall, in case they were never allowed to study Transfiguration again …</p>

    <p>Hermione was starting to get a really sick feeling in her stomach. She pushed back her plate from the table, she couldn’t eat lunch like this.</p>

    <p>And she closed her eyes and began to mentally recite the rules of Transfiguration.</p>

    <p><i>‘I will never Transfigure anything into liquid or gas.’</i></p>

    <p><i>‘I will never Transfigure anything that looks like food or anything else that goes inside a human body.’</i></p>

    <p>No, they really <em>shouldn’t</em> have tried to Transfigure the pill, or they should’ve at least <em>realized</em> … she’d been so caught up in Harry’s brilliant idea that she hadn’t <i>thought …</i></p>

    <p>The sick feeling in Hermione’s stomach was getting worse. There was a feeling in her mind of something hovering just on the edge of recognition, a perception about to invert itself, a young woman about to become a crone, a vase about to become two faces …</p>

    <p>And she went on remembering the rules of Transfiguration.</p>


</div>
</body>
</html>