<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
  <h1>Noticing Confusion</h1>

  <div class="calibre1">

    <p>Professor Quirrell’s office hours consisted of 11:40 to 11:55 AM on Thursday. That was for all of his students in all years. It cost a Quirrell point just to knock on the door, and if he didn’t think your reason was worth his time, you would lose another fifty.</p>

    <p>Harry knocked on the door.</p>

    <p>There was a pause. Then a biting voice said, ‘I suppose you may as well come in, Mr&#160;Potter.’</p>

    <p>And before Harry could touch the doorknob, the door slammed open, hitting the wall with a sharp crack that sounded like something might have broken in the wood, or the stone, or both.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell was leaning back in his chair and reading a suspiciously old-looking book, bound in night-blue leather with silver runes on the spine. His eyes had not moved from the pages. ‘I am not in a good mood, Mr&#160;Potter. And when I am not a good mood, I am not a pleasant person to be around. For your own sake, conduct your business quickly and depart.’</p>

    <p>A cold chill seeped from the room, as though it contained something that cast darkness the way lamps cast light, and which hadn’t been fully shaded.</p>

    <p>Harry was a bit taken aback. <i>Not in a good mood</i> didn’t quite seem to cover it. What could be bothering Professor Quirrell this much … ?</p>

    <p>Well, you didn’t just walk out on friends when they were feeling down. Harry cautiously advanced into the room. ‘Is there anything I can do to help&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘No,’ said Professor Quirrell, still not looking up from the book.</p>

    <p>‘I mean, if you’ve been dealing with idiots and want someone sane to talk to …’</p>

    <p>There was a surprisingly long pause.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell slammed the book shut and it vanished with a small whispering sound. He looked up, then, and Harry flinched.</p>

    <p>‘I suppose an intelligent conversation would be pleasant for <em>me</em> at this point,’ said Professor Quirrell in the same biting tone that had invited Harry to enter. ‘<em>You</em> are not likely to find it so, be warned.’</p>

    <p>Harry drew a deep breath. ‘I promise I won’t mind if you snap at me. What happened?’</p>

    <p>The cold in the room seemed to deepen. ‘A sixth-year Gryffindor cast a curse at one of my more promising students, a sixth-year Slytherin.’</p>

    <p>Harry swallowed. ‘What … sort of curse?’</p>

    <p>And the fury on Professor Quirrell’s face was no longer contained. ‘Why bother to ask an unimportant question like that, Mr&#160;Potter? Our friend the sixth-year Gryffindor did not think it was important!’</p>

    <p>‘Are you <em>serious?</em>’ Harry said before he could stop himself.</p>

    <p>‘No, I’m in a terrible mood today for no particular reason. <i>Yes I’m serious, you fool!</i> He didn’t know. He <i>actually didn’t know.</i> I didn’t believe it until the Aurors confirmed it under Veritaserum. He is in his <i>sixth year at Hogwarts</i> and he cast a high-level Dark curse <i>without knowing what it did.</i>’</p>

    <p>‘You don’t mean,’ Harry said, ‘that he was <em>mistaken</em> about what it did, that he somehow read the wrong spell description&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘All he knew was that it was meant to be directed at an enemy. He <em>knew</em> that was all he knew.’</p>

    <p>And that had been enough to cast the spell. ‘I do not understand how anything with that small a brain could walk upright.’</p>

    <p>‘Indeed, Mr&#160;Potter,’ said Professor Quirrell.</p>

    <p>There was a pause. Professor Quirrell leaned forward and picked up the silver inkwell from his desk, turning it around in his hands, staring at it as though wondering how he could go about torturing an inkwell to death.</p>

    <p>‘Was the sixth-year Slytherin seriously hurt?’ said Harry.</p>

    <p>‘Yes.’</p>

    <p>‘Was the sixth-year Gryffindor raised by Muggles?’</p>

    <p><em>‘Yes.’</em></p>

    <p>‘Is Dumbledore refusing to expel him because the poor boy didn’t know?’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell’s hands whitened on the inkwell. <i>‘Do you have a point, Mr&#160;Potter, or are you just stating the obvious?’</i></p>

    <p>‘Professor Quirrell,’ said Harry gravely, ‘all the Muggle-raised students in Hogwarts need a safety lecture in which they are told the things so ridiculously obvious that no wizardborn would ever think to mention them. Don’t cast curses if you don’t know what they do, if you discover something dangerous don’t tell the world about it, don’t brew high-level potions without supervision in a bathroom, the reason why there are underage magic laws, all the basics.’</p>

    <p>‘Why?’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘Let the stupid ones die before they breed.’</p>

    <p>‘If you don’t mind losing a few sixth-year Slytherins along with them.’</p>

    <p>The inkwell caught fire in Professor Quirrell’s hands and burned with a terrible slowness, hideous black-orange flames tearing at the metal and seeming to take tiny bites from it, the silver twisting as it melted, as though it were trying and failing to escape. There was a tinny shrieking sound, as though the metal were screaming.</p>

    <p>‘I suppose you are right,’ Professor Quirrell said with a resigned smile. ‘I shall design a lecture to ensure that Muggleborns who are too stupid to live do not take anyone valuable with them as they depart.’</p>

    <p>The inkwell went on screaming and burning in Professor Quirrell’s hands, tiny droplets of metal, still on fire, now dripping to the desk, as though the inkwell were crying.</p>

    <p>‘You’re not running away,’ observed Professor Quirrell.</p>

    <p>Harry opened his mouth –</p>

    <p>‘If you’re about to say you’re not scared of me,’ said Professor Quirrell, <em>‘don’t.’</em></p>

    <p>‘You are the scariest person I know,’ Harry said, ‘and one of the top reasons for that is your control. I simply can’t imagine hearing that you’d hurt someone you had not made a deliberate decision to hurt.’</p>

    <p>The fire in Professor Quirrell’s hands winked out, and he carefully placed the ruined inkwell on his desk. ‘You say the nicest things, Mr&#160;Potter. Have you been taking lessons in flattery? From, perhaps, Mr&#160;Malfoy?’</p>

    <p>Harry kept his expression blank, and realized one second too late that it might as well have been a signed confession. Professor Quirrell didn’t care what your expression looked like, he cared which states of mind made it likely.</p>

    <p>‘I see,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘Mr&#160;Malfoy is a useful friend to have, Mr&#160;Potter, and there is much he can teach you, but I hope you have not made the mistake of trusting him with too many confidences.’</p>

    <p>‘He knows nothing which I fear becoming known,’ said Harry.</p>

    <p>‘Well done,’ said Professor Quirrell, smiling slightly. ‘So what was your original business here?’</p>

    <p>‘I think I’m done with the preliminary exercises in Occlumency and ready for the tutor.’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell nodded. ‘I shall conduct you to Gringotts this Sunday.’ He paused, looking at Harry, and smiled. ‘And we might even make it a little outing, if you like. I’ve just had a pleasant thought.’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded, smiling back.</p>

    <p>As Harry left the office, he heard Professor Quirrell humming a small tune.</p>

    <p>Harry was glad he’d been able to cheer him up.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>That Sunday there seemed to be a rather large number of people whispering in the hallways, at least when Harry Potter walked past them.</p>

    <p>And a lot of pointed fingers.</p>

    <p>And a great deal of female giggling.</p>

    <p>It had started at breakfast, when someone had asked Harry if he’d heard the news, and Harry had quickly interrupted and said that if the news was written by Rita Skeeter then he didn’t want to <em>hear</em> about it, he wanted to read it in the paper himself.</p>

    <p>It had then developed that not many students at Hogwarts got copies of the <i>Daily Prophet,</i> and that the copies which had not already been bought up from their owners were being passed around in some sort of complicated order and nobody really knew who had one at the moment …</p>

    <p>So Harry had used a Quieting Charm and gone on to eat his breakfast, trusting to his seat-mates to wave off the many, many questioners, and doing his best to ignore the incredulity, the laughter, the congratulatory smiles, the pitying looks, the fearful glances, and the dropped plates as new people came down for breakfast and heard.</p>

    <p>Harry was feeling <em>rather</em> curious, but it <em>really</em> wouldn’t have done to spoil the artistry by hearing it second hand.</p>

    <p>He’d done homework in the safety of his trunk for the next couple of hours, after telling his dorm-mates to come get him if anyone found him an original newspaper.</p>

    <p>Harry was still ignorant at 10AM, when he’d left Hogwarts in a carriage with Professor Quirrell, who was in the front right, and currently slumped over in zombie-mode. Harry was sitting diagonally across, as far away as the carriage allowed, in the back left. Even so, Harry had a constant feeling of doom as the carriage rattled over a small path through a section of non-forbidden forest. It made it a bit hard to read, especially since the material was difficult, and Harry suddenly wished he was reading one of his childhood science fiction books instead –</p>

    <p>‘We’re outside the wards, Mr&#160;Potter,’ said Professor Quirrell’s voice from the front. ‘Time to go.’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell carefully disembarked from the carriage, bracing himself as he stepped down. Harry, on his own side, jumped off.</p>

    <p>Harry was wondering exactly how they’d get there when Professor Quirrell said ‘Catch!’ and threw a bronze Knut at him, and Harry caught it without thinking.</p>

    <p>A giant intangible hook caught at Harry’s abdomen and yanked him back, hard, only without any sense of acceleration, and an instant later Harry was standing in the middle of Diagon Alley.</p>

    <p>(<i>Excuse me, what?</i> said his brain.)</p>

    <p>(<i>We just teleported,</i> explained Harry.)</p>

    <p>(<i>That didn’t used to happen in the ancestral environment,</i> Harry’s brain complained, and disoriented him.)</p>

    <p>Harry staggered as his feet adjusted to the brick of the street instead of the dirt of the forest corridor they had been traversing. He straightened, still dizzy, with the bustling witches and wizards seeming to sway slightly, and the cries of the shopkeepers seeming to move around in his hearing, as his brain tried to place a world to be located in.</p>

    <p>Moments later, there was a sort of sucking-popping sound from a few paces behind Harry, and when Harry turned to look Professor Quirrell was there.</p>

    <p>‘Do you mind&#160;–’ said Harry, at the same time as Professor Quirrell said, ‘I’m afraid I&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Harry stopped, Professor Quirrell didn’t.</p>

    <p>‘– need to go off and set something in motion, Mr&#160;Potter. As it has been thoroughly explained to me that I am responsible for anything whatsoever that happens to you, I’ll be leaving you with&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘News-stand,’ Harry said.</p>

    <p>‘Pardon?’</p>

    <p>‘Or anywhere I can buy a copy of the <i>Daily Prophet.</i> Put me there and I’ll be happy.’</p>

    <p>Shortly after, Harry had been delivered into a bookshop, accompanied by several quietly spoken, ambiguous threats. And the shopkeeper had received <em>less</em> ambiguous threats, judging by the way he had cringed, and how his eyes now kept darting between Harry and the entrance.</p>

    <p>If the bookshop burned down, Harry was going to stick around in the middle of the fire until Professor Quirrell got back.</p>

    <p>Meanwhile –</p>

    <p>Harry took a quick glance around.</p>

    <p>The bookshop seemed rather small and shoddy, with only four rows of bookcases visible, and the nearest shelf Harry’s eyes had jumped to seemed to deal with narrow, cheaply bound books with grim titles like <i>The Massacre of Albania in the Fifteenth Century.</i></p>

    <p>First things first. Harry stepped over to the seller’s counter.</p>

    <p>‘Pardon me,’ said Harry, ‘One copy of the <i>Daily Prophet,</i> please.’</p>

    <p>‘Five Sickles,’ said the shopkeeper. ‘Sorry, kid, I’ve only got three left.’</p>

    <p>Five Sickles dropped onto the counter. Harry had the feeling he could have bargained him down a couple of points, but at this point he didn’t really care.</p>

    <p>The shopkeeper’s eyes widened and he seemed to really notice Harry for the first time. <em>‘You!’</em></p>

    <p><em>‘Me!’</em></p>

    <p>‘Is it <em>true?</em> Are you <em>really</em>&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘<i>Shut up!</i> Sorry, I’ve been waiting <i>all day</i> to read this in the original newspaper instead of hearing about it second hand, so please just <i>hand it over</i>, all right?’</p>

    <p>The shopkeeper stared at Harry for a moment, then wordlessly reached under the counter and passed over one folded copy of the <i>Daily Prophet</i>.</p>

    <p>The headline read:</p>

    <blockquote class="print">
      <p class="calibre7"><span class="shout">Harry Potter</span><br/> <span class="shout">Secretly Betrothed</span><br/> <span class="shout">to Ginevra Weasley</span></p>
    </blockquote>

    <p>Harry stared.</p>

    <p>He lifted the newspaper off the counter, softly, reverently, like he was handling an original Escher artwork, and unbent it to read …</p>

    <p>… about the evidence that had convinced Rita Skeeter.</p>

    <p>… and some interesting further details.</p>

    <p>… and yet more evidence.</p>

    <p>Fred and George had cleared it with their sister first, surely? Yes, of course they had. There was a picture of Ginevra Weasley sighing longingly over what Harry could see, looking closely, was a photo of himself. That had to have been staged.</p>

    <p>But <em>how</em> on <i>Earth … ?</i></p>

    <p>Harry was sitting in a cheap folding chair, rereading the newspaper for the fourth time, when the door whispered softly and Professor Quirrell came back into the shop.</p>

    <p>‘My apologies for – <em>what</em> in Merlin’s name are you reading?’</p>

    <p>‘It would seem,’ said Harry, awe in his voice, ‘that one Mr&#160;Arthur Weasley was placed under the Imperius Curse by a Death Eater whom my father killed, thus creating a debt to House Potter, which my father demanded be repaid by the hand in marriage of the recently born Ginevra Weasley. Do people actually do that sort of thing around here?’</p>

    <p>‘How could Miss&#160;Skeeter <em>possibly</em> be fool enough to believe&#160;–’</p>

    <p>And Professor Quirrell’s voice cut off.</p>

    <p>Harry had been reading the newspaper held vertically and unfolded, which meant that Professor Quirrell, from where he was standing, could see the text underneath the headline.</p>

    <p>The look of shock on Professor Quirrell’s face was a work of art almost on par with the newspaper itself.</p>

    <p>‘Don’t worry,’ said Harry cheerfully, ‘it’s all fake.’</p>

    <p>From elsewhere in the store, he heard the shopkeeper gasp. There was the sound of a stack of books falling over.</p>

    <p>‘Mr&#160;Potter …’ Professor Quirrell said slowly, ‘are you <em>sure</em> of that?’</p>

    <p>‘Quite sure. Shall we go?’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell nodded, looking rather abstracted, and Harry folded the newspaper back up, and followed him out of the door.</p>

    <p>For some reason Harry didn’t seem to be hearing any street noises now.</p>

    <p>They walked in silence for thirty seconds before Professor Quirrell spoke. ‘Miss&#160;Skeeter viewed the original proceedings of the restricted Wizengamot session.’</p>

    <p>‘Yes.’</p>

    <p>‘The <i>original proceedings of the Wizengamot.</i>’</p>

    <p>‘Yes.’</p>

    <p>‘<em>I</em> would have trouble doing that.’</p>

    <p>‘Really?’ said Harry. ‘Because if my suspicions are correct, this was done by a Hogwarts student.’</p>

    <p>‘That is beyond impossible,’ Professor Quirrell said flatly. ‘Mr&#160;Potter … I regret to say that this young lady expects to marry you.’</p>

    <p>‘But <em>that</em> is improbable,’ said Harry. ‘To quote Douglas Adams, the impossible often has a kind of integrity which the merely improbable lacks.’</p>

    <p>‘I see your point,’ Professor Quirrell said slowly. ‘But … no, Mr&#160;Potter. It may be impossible, but I can <em>imagine</em> tampering with the Wizengamot proceedings. It is <em>unimaginable</em> that the Grand Manager of Gringotts should affix the seal of his office in witness to a false betrothal contract, and Miss&#160;Skeeter personally verified that seal.’</p>

    <p>‘Indeed,’ said Harry, ‘you would expect the Grand Manager of Gringotts to get involved with that much money changing hands. It seems Mr&#160;Weasley was greatly in debt, and so demanded an additional payment of ten thousand Galleons&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘<i>Ten thousand</i> Galleons for a <em>Weasley?</em> You could buy the daughter of a Noble House for that!’</p>

    <p>‘Excuse me,’ Harry said. ‘I really have to ask at this point, do people actually do that sort of thing around here&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Rarely,’ said Professor Quirrell, with a frown on his face. ‘And not at all, I suspect, since the Dark Lord departed. I suppose that according to the newspaper, your father just paid it?’</p>

    <p>‘He didn’t have any choice,’ said Harry. ‘Not if he wanted to fulfil the conditions of the prophecy.’</p>

    <p><i>‘Give me that,’</i> said Professor Quirrell, and the newspaper leaped out of Harry’s hand so fast that he got a paper cut.</p>

    <p>Harry automatically put the finger in his mouth to suck on, feeling rather shocked, and turned to remonstrate with Professor Quirrell –</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell had stopped short in the middle of the street, and his eyes were flickering rapidly back and forth as an invisible force held the newspaper suspended before him.</p>

    <p>Harry watched, gaping in open awe, as the newspaper opened to reveal pages two and three. And not much long after, four and five. It was like the man had cast off a pretence of mortality.</p>

    <p>And after a troublingly short time, the paper neatly folded itself up again. Professor Quirrell plucked it from the air and tossed it to Harry, who caught it in sheer reflex; and then Professor Quirrell started walking again, and Harry automatically trudged after.</p>

    <p>‘No,’ said Professor Quirrell, ‘that prophecy didn’t sound quite right to me either.’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded, still stunned.</p>

    <p>‘The centaurs could have been put under an <em>Imperius</em>,’ Professor Quirrell said, frowning, ‘<em>that</em> seems understandable. What magic can make, magic can corrupt, and it is not unthinkable that the Great Seal of Gringotts could be twisted to another’s hand. The Unspeakable could have been impersonated with Polyjuice, likewise the Bavarian seer. And with <em>enough</em> effort it might be possible to tamper with the proceedings of the Wizengamot. Do you have any idea how that was done?’</p>

    <p>‘I do not have one single plausible hypothesis,’ said Harry. ‘I do know it was done on a total budget of forty Galleons.’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell stopped short and whirled on Harry. His expression was now completely incredulous. ‘Forty Galleons will pay a competent ward-breaker to open a path into a home you wish to burgle! Forty <em>thousand</em> Galleons <em>might</em> pay a team of the greatest professional criminals in the world to tamper with the proceedings of the Wizengamot!’</p>

    <p>Harry shrugged helplessly. ‘I’ll remember that the next time I want to save thirty-nine thousand, nine hundred and sixty Galleons by finding the right contractor.’</p>

    <p>‘I do not say this often,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘I am impressed.’</p>

    <p>‘Likewise,’ said Harry.</p>

    <p>‘And who is this incredible Hogwarts student?’</p>

    <p>‘I’m afraid I couldn’t say.’</p>

    <p>Somewhat to Harry’s surprise, Professor Quirrell made no objection to this.</p>

    <p>They walked in the direction of the Gringotts building, thinking, for they were neither of them the sort of person who would give up on the problem without considering it for at least five minutes.</p>

    <p>‘I have a feeling,’ Harry said finally, ‘that we’re coming at this from the wrong angle. There’s a tale I once heard about some students who came into a physics class, and the teacher showed them a large metal plate near a fire. She ordered them to feel the metal plate, and they felt that the metal nearer the fire was cooler, and the metal further away was warmer. And she said, write down your guess for why this happens. So some students wrote down “because of how the metal conducts heat”, and some students wrote down “because of how the air moves”, and no one said “this just seems impossible”, and the real answer was that before the students came into the room, the teacher turned the plate around.’</p>

    <p>‘Interesting,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘That does sound similar. Is there a moral?’</p>

    <p>‘That your strength as a rationalist is your ability to be more confused by fiction than by reality,’ said Harry. ‘If you’re equally good at explaining any outcome, you have zero knowledge. The students thought they could use words like “because of heat conduction” to explain anything, even a metal plate being cooler on the side nearer the fire. So they didn’t notice how confused they were, and that meant they couldn’t be more confused by falsehood than by truth. If you tell me that the centaurs were under the <em>Imperius</em> Curse, I still have the feeling of something being not quite right. I notice that I’m still confused even after hearing your explanation.’</p>

    <p>‘Hm,’ said Professor Quirrell.</p>

    <p>They walked on further.</p>

    <p>‘I don’t suppose,’ said Harry, ‘that it’s possible to <em>actually</em> swap people into alternate universes? Like, this isn’t our own Rita Skeeter, or they temporarily sent her somewhere else?’</p>

    <p>‘If <em>that</em> was possible,’ Professor Quirrell said, his voice rather dry, ‘would I still be <em>here?</em>’</p>

    <p>And just as they were almost to the huge white front of the Gringotts building, Professor Quirrell said:</p>

    <p>‘Ah. Of <em>course.</em> I see it now. Let me guess, the Weasley twins?’</p>

    <p><em>‘What?’</em> said Harry, his voice rising an octave. <em>‘How?’</em></p>

    <p>‘I’m afraid I couldn’t say.’</p>

    <p>‘… That is <em>not</em> fair.’</p>

    <p>‘I think it is extremely fair,’ said Professor Quirrell, and they entered through the bronze doors.</p>

   

</div>
</body>
</html>