<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
  <h1>Caring</h1>

  <div class="calibre1">
    <p class="thought">June 3rd, 1992.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell was very sick.</p>

    <p>He’d seemed better for a while, after drinking his unicorn’s blood in May, but the air of intense power which had surrounded him afterwards hadn’t lasted even a day. By the Ides of May, Professor Quirrell’s hands had been trembling again, though subtly. The Defence Professor’s medical regimen had been interrupted too early, it seemed.</p>

    <p>Six days ago Professor Quirrell had collapsed at dinnertime.</p>

    <p>Madam Pomfrey had tried to forbid Professor Quirrell from teaching classes, and Professor Quirrell had shouted at her in front of everyone. The Defence Professor had shouted that he was dying regardless, and would use his remaining time as he chose.</p>

    <p>So Madam Pomfrey, blinking hard, had forbidden the Defence Professor from doing anything <em>except</em> teaching his classes. She’d asked for a volunteer to help her take Professor Quirrell to a room in the Hogwarts infirmary. More than a hundred students had risen to their feet, only half wearing green.</p>

    <p>The Defence Professor no longer sat at the Head Table during mealtimes. He didn’t cast spells during lessons. The oldest students who had the most Quirrell points helped him to teach, the seventh-years who had already sat their Defence N.E.W.T.s in May. They took turns floating him from his room in the infirmary to his classes, and brought him food at mealtimes. Professor Quirrell proctored his Battle Magic classes from a chair, sitting.</p>

    <p>Watching Hermione die had hurt more than this, but that had ended much more quickly.</p>

    <p class="thought">This is the true Enemy.</p>

    <p>Harry had already thought that, after Hermione had died. Being forced to watch Professor Quirrell die, day by day, week by week, had not done much to change his mind.</p>

    <p><em>This is the true Enemy I have to face,</em> Harry thought in Wednesday’s Defence class, watching Professor Quirrell leaning far to one side of his chair before that day’s seventh-year assistant caught him. <em>Everything else is just shadows and distraction.</em></p>

    <p>Harry had been turning over Trelawney’s prophecy in his mind, wondering if maybe the true Dark Lord had nothing to do with Lord Voldemort at all. <em>Born to those who have thrice defied him</em> seemed to strongly invoke the Peverell brothers and the three Deathly Hallows – though Harry didn’t exactly see how Death could have marked him as an equal, which seemed to imply some sort of deliberate action on Death’s part.</p>

    <p><em>This alone is the true Enemy,</em> Harry thought. <em>After this will come Professor McGonagall, Mum and Dad, even Neville in his time, unless the wound in the world can be healed before then.</em></p>

    <p>There was nothing Harry could do. Madam Pomfrey was already doing for Professor Quirrell what magic could do, and magic seemed strictly superior to Muggle techniques when it came to healing.</p>

    <p>There was nothing Harry could do.</p>

    <p>Nothing he could do.</p>

    <p>Nothing.</p>

    <p>Nothing at all.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Harry raised his hand, and knocked upon the door, in case the person there could no longer detect him.</p>

    <p>‘What is it?’ came a strained voice from the infirmary room.</p>

    <p>‘It’s me.’</p>

    <p>There was a long pause. ‘Come in,’ said that voice.</p>

    <p>Harry slipped inside and closed the door behind him, and cast the Quieting Charm. He stood as far away from Professor Quirrell as he could, just in case his own magic was making the Professor feel uncomfortable.</p>

    <p>Though the sense of doom was fading, fading with each passing day.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell was lying back in his infirmary bed, only his head propped up by a pillow. A coverlet of cottony material, red with black stitching, covered him to his chest. A book hovered before his eyes, outlined in a pale glow which also surrounded a black cube lying by the bed. Not the Defence Professor’s own magic, then, but a device of some kind.</p>

    <p>The book was <em>Thinking Physics</em> by Epstein, the same book Harry had lent to Draco a few months back. Harry had stopped fretting about its possible misuse several weeks earlier.</p>

    <p>‘This&nbsp;–’ Professor Quirrell said, and coughed; it didn’t sound quite right. ‘This is a fascinating book … if I’d ever realized …’ A laugh, mixed with another cough. ‘Why did I assume the Muggle arts … must not be mine? That they would be … of no use to me? Why did I never bother trying … to test it experimentally … as you would say? In case … my assumption … was wrong? It seems sheerly foolish of me … in retrospect …’</p>

    <p>Harry was having more trouble speaking than Professor Quirrell was. Wordlessly, Harry reached into his pocket, and laid a kerchief on the floor; which he unfolded to reveal a small white pebble, smooth and round.</p>

    <p>‘What’s that?’ said the Defence Professor.</p>

    <p>‘It’s a, it’s a, Transfigured, unicorn.’</p>

    <p>Harry had checked the books, had learned that since he was too young to have sexual thoughts he would be able to approach a unicorn without fear. The same books had said nothing about unicorns being smart. Harry had already noticed that every intelligent magical species was at least partially humanoid, from merfolk to centaurs to giants, from elves to goblins to Veela. All had essentially human-like emotions, many were known to interbreed with humans. Harry had already reasoned out that magic didn’t create new intelligence but just changed the shape of genetically human beings. Unicorns were equine, were not even partially humanoid, didn’t talk, used no tools, they were almost certainly just magical horses. If it was right to eat a cow to feed yourself for a day, then it <em>had</em> to be right to drink a unicorn’s blood in order to stave off death for weeks. You couldn’t have it both ways.</p>

    <p>So Harry had gone into the Forbidden Forest wearing his Cloak. He had searched the Grove of Unicorns until he saw her, a proud creature with a pure white coat and violet hair, with three blue blotches on her flank. Harry had gone over, and the sapphire eyes had stared at him inquisitively. Harry had tapped out the sequence 1–2–3 on the ground several times with his shoes. The unicorn had shown no sign of responding in kind. Harry had reached over, taken her hoof in his hand, and tapped the same sequence with the unicorn’s hoof. The unicorn had only looked at him curiously.</p>

    <p>And something about feeding the unicorn the sleeping-potion-laced sugar cubes had still felt like murder.</p>

    <p><em>That magic gives their existence a weight of meaning which no mere animal could possess … to slay something innocent to save oneself, that is a very grave sin.</em> Those two phrases, from Professor McGonagall, from the centaur, had both run through Harry’s mind, over and over as the white unicorn had yawned, laid down on the ground, and closed its eyes for what would be the last time. The Transfiguration had lasted an hour, and Harry’s eyes had watered repeatedly as he worked. The unicorn’s death might not have come then, but it would come soon enough, and it was foreign to Harry’s nature to try to refuse responsibility of any kind. Harry would just have to hope that, if you didn’t kill the unicorn to save yourself, if you did it to help a friend, it would be acceptable in the end.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell’s eyebrows had climbed toward his hairline. His voice was less soft, had something of his normal sharpness, as he said, ‘I forbid you from doing that again.’</p>

    <p>‘I wondered if you’d say that,’ Harry said. He swallowed again. ‘But this unicorn is already, already doomed, so you might as well take it, Professor …’</p>

    <p>‘Why have you done this?’</p>

    <p>If the Defence Professor really didn’t understand that, he was slower on the uptake than anyone Harry had ever met. ‘I kept thinking there was nothing I could do,’ Harry said. ‘I got tired of thinking it.’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell closed his eyes. His head leaned back into the pillow. ‘You were lucky,’ the Defence Professor said in a soft voice, ‘that a unicorn in Transfigured form … did not set off the Hogwarts wards, as a strange creature … I shall have to … take this outside the grounds, to make use of it … but that can be managed. I shall tell them that I wish to look upon the lake … I will ask you to sustain the Transfiguration before you go, and it should last long enough, after that … and with my last strength, dispel whatever death-alarms were placed to watch over the herd … which, the unicorn being not yet dead, but only Transfigured, will not yet have triggered … you were very lucky, Mr&nbsp;Potter.’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded. He started to speak, then stopped again. Words seemed to stick in his throat once more.</p>

    <p class="thought">You already calculated the expected utilities, if it works, if it goes wrong. You assigned probabilities, you multiplied, and then you threw out the answer and went with your new gut feeling, which was the same. So say it.</p>

    <p>‘Do you know,’ Harry said unsteadily, ‘of any way at all, by which your life might be saved?’</p>

    <p>The Defence Professor’s eyes opened. ‘Why … do you ask me that, boy?’</p>

    <p>‘There’s … a spell I heard of, a ritual&nbsp;–’</p>

    <p>‘Be silent,’ said the Defence Professor.</p>

    <p>An instant later a snake lay in the bed.</p>

    <p>Even the snake’s eyes were dull.</p>

    <p>It did not rise.</p>

    <p><em class="parsel">‘<span class="ps">S</span>peak on,’</em> hissed that snake, its flickering tongue its only motion.</p>

    <p>‘There is … <em class="parsel">there iss a ritual, I heard of from the sschoolmasster, by which he thinkss the Dark Lord might have lived on. It iss called –</em>’ and Harry stopped, as he realized that he did know how to say the word in Parseltongue. <em class="parsel">‘Horcrux. It require<span class="ps">s</span> a death, I have heard. But if you are dying in any ca<span class="ps">s</span>e, you might try to adapt the ritual, even at great ri<span class="ps">s</span>k for the new <span class="ps">s</span>pell, <span class="ps">s</span>o that it can be done with a different <span class="ps">s</span>acrifice. It would change the whole world, if you <span class="ps">s</span>ucceed – though I don’t know anything about the <span class="ps">s</span>pell – the <span class="ps">s</span>choolma<span class="ps">s</span>ter thought it tore off a piece of <span class="ps">s</span>oul, though I don’t <span class="ps">s</span>ee how that could be true&nbsp;–’</em></p>

    <p>The snake was hissing laughter, strange sharp laughter, almost hysterical. <em class="parsel">‘You tell me of that <span class="ps">s</span>pell? Me? You mu<span class="ps">s</span>t learn more caution in the future, boy. But it matter<span class="ps">s</span> not. I learned of the horcrux <span class="ps">s</span>pell <span class="ps">s</span>ince long ago. It i<span class="ps">s</span> meaningle<span class="ps">ss</span>.’</em></p>

    <p>‘Meaningless?’ Harry said aloud in surprise.</p>

    <p><em class="parsel">‘Would be pointle<span class="ps">ss</span> <span class="ps">s</span>pell from beginning, if <span class="ps">s</span>oul<span class="ps">s</span> exi<span class="ps">s</span>ted. Tear piece of <span class="ps">s</span>oul? That i<span class="ps">s</span> lie. Mi<span class="ps">s</span>direction to hide true <span class="ps">s</span>ecret. Only one who doe<span class="ps">s</span> not believe in common lie<span class="ps">s</span> will rea<span class="ps">s</span>on further, <span class="ps">s</span>ee beneath ob<span class="ps">s</span>curation, reali<span class="ps">s</span>e how to ca<span class="ps">s</span>t <span class="ps">s</span>pell. Required murder i<span class="ps">s</span> not <span class="ps">s</span>acrificial ritual at all. <span class="ps">S</span>udden death <span class="ps">s</span>ometimes make<span class="ps">s</span> gho<span class="ps">s</span>t, if magic bur<span class="ps">s</span>ts and imprint<span class="ps">s</span> on nearby thing. Horcrux <span class="ps">s</span>pell channel<span class="ps">s</span> death-bur<span class="ps">s</span>t through ca<span class="ps">s</span>ter, create<span class="ps">s</span> your own gho<span class="ps">s</span>t in<span class="ps">s</span>tead of victim’<span class="ps">s</span>, imprint<span class="ps">s</span> gho<span class="ps">s</span>t in <span class="ps">s</span>pecial device. <span class="ps">S</span>econd victim pick<span class="ps">s</span> up horcrux device, device imprint<span class="ps">s</span> your memorie<span class="ps">s</span> into them. But only memorie<span class="ps">s</span> from time horcrux device wa<span class="ps">s</span> made. You <span class="ps">s</span>ee flaw?’</em></p>

    <p>The burning sensation was back in Harry’s throat. <em class="parsel">‘No continuity of&nbsp;–’</em> there wasn’t a snake word for consciousness <em class="parsel">‘- <span class="ps">s</span>elf, you would go on thinking after making the horcrux, then <span class="ps">s</span>elf with new memorie<span class="ps">s</span> die<span class="ps">s</span> and i<span class="ps">s</span> not re<span class="ps">s</span>tored&nbsp;–’</em></p>

    <p><em class="parsel">‘Ye<span class="ps">s</span>, you do <span class="ps">s</span>ee. Al<span class="ps">s</span>o Merlin’<span class="ps">s</span> Interdict prevent<span class="ps">s</span> powerful <span class="ps">s</span>pells from pa<span class="ps">s</span>ing through <span class="ps">s</span>uch a device, <span class="ps">s</span>ince it i<span class="ps">s</span> not truly alive. Dark Wizard<span class="ps">s</span> who think to return thu<span class="ps">s</span> are weaker, ea<span class="ps">s</span>ily di<span class="ps">s</span>patched. None have per<span class="ps">s</span>i<span class="ps">s</span>ted long by <span class="ps">s</span>uch mean<span class="ps">s</span>. Per<span class="ps">s</span>onalitie<span class="ps">s</span> change, mix with victim’<span class="ps">s</span>. Death i<span class="ps">s</span> not truly gain<span class="ps">s</span>aid. Real <span class="ps">s</span>elf is lo<span class="ps">s</span>t, as you <span class="ps">s</span>ay. Not to my pre<span class="ps">s</span>ent ta<span class="ps">s</span>te. Admit I con<span class="ps">s</span>idered it, long ago.’</em></p>

    <p>A man was lying in the infirmary bed once more. The Defence Professor breathed, then made a wretched coughing sound.</p>

    <p>‘Can you give me a full recipe for the spell?’ Harry said, after a moment’s deliberation. ‘There might be some way to improve on the flaws, with enough research. Some way to do it ethically and have it work.’ Like doing the transfer into a clone body with a blank brain, instead of an innocent victim, which might also improve the fidelity of the personality transfer … though that still left the other problems.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell made a short sound, under his breath, that might have been laughter. ‘You know, boy,’ Professor Quirrell whispered, ‘I had thought … to teach you everything … the seeds of all the secrets I knew … from one living mind to another … so that later, when you found the right books, you would be able to understand … I would have passed on my knowledge to you, my heir … we would have begun as soon as you asked me … but you never asked.’</p>

    <p>Even the grief surrounding Harry like thick water gave way to that, to the sheer magnitude of the missed opportunity. ‘I was supposed to – ? I didn’t know I was supposed to – !’</p>

    <p>Another coughing chuckle. ‘Ah yes … the unknowing Muggleborn … in heritage if not in blood … that is you. But I thought … better of it … that you should not walk my path … it was not a good path, in the end.’</p>

    <p>‘It’s not too late, Professor!’ Harry said. A part of Harry yelled that he was being selfish, and then another part shouted that down; there would be other people to help.</p>

    <p>‘Yes, it is too late … and you shall not … persuade me otherwise … I have … thought better of it … as I said … I am too full … of secrets better left unknown … <em>look at me.</em>’</p>

    <p>Harry looked, almost despite himself.</p>

    <p>He saw a still-unwrinkled face, looking old and pained, beneath a head rapidly losing its hair, even the sides looking wispy now; Harry saw a face he’d always thought was sharp, now revealed as <em>thin,</em> muscle and fat fading away from the face, as from the arms beneath it, like the skeletal form of Bellatrix Black he’d seen in Azkaban –</p>

    <p>Harry’s head wrenched aside, unthinkingly.</p>

    <p>‘You see,’ whispered the Professor. ‘I dislike to sound cliched … Mr&nbsp;Potter … but the truth is … the Arts called Dark … really are not good for a person … in the end.’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell breathed in, breathed out. There was quiet for a time in the infirmary, the two of them watched only by the elaborately ornamented stone of the walls.</p>

    <p>‘Is there anything left … unsaid between us?’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘I am not dying today … mind you … not right now … but I do not know how long … I shall be able to converse.’</p>

    <p>‘There’s,’ Harry said, swallowed again. ‘There’s a lot of things, way too many things, but … it might be the wrong thing to ask, but I don’t want – this one question unanswered – snake?’</p>

    <p>A snake lay on the bed.</p>

    <p><em class="parsel">‘I learned how the Killing Cur<span class="ps">s</span>e work<span class="ps">s</span>. Require<span class="ps">s</span> true hate to ca<span class="ps">s</span>t, not much hate, but mu<span class="ps">s</span>t want target dead, they <span class="ps">s</span>ay. In pri<span class="ps">s</span>on with life-eater<span class="ps">s</span>, you ca<span class="ps">s</span>t Killing Cur<span class="ps">s</span>e at guard – <span class="ps">s</span>aid you did not want him dead – wa<span class="ps">s</span> that lie? Here, now, at thi<span class="ps">s</span> di<span class="ps">s</span>tance – you may <span class="ps">s</span>peak truth – even if you fear it reflect<span class="ps">s</span> poorly on you – it <span class="ps">s</span>hould not matter now, teacher. I wi<span class="ps">s</span>h to know. Mu<span class="ps">s</span>t know. Will not abandon you, either way.’</em></p>

    <p>A man lay on the bed.</p>

    <p>‘Listen carefully,’ Professor Quirrell whispered. ‘I will tell you a conundrum … a riddle of a dangerous spell … when you know the answer to that puzzle … you will also know … the answer to your question … are you listening?’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded.</p>

    <p>‘There is a limitation … to the Killing Curse. To cast it once … in a fight … you must hate enough … to want the other dead. To cast Avada … Kedavra twice … you must hate enough … to kill twice … to cut their throat with your own hands … to watch them die … then do it again. Very few … can hate enough … to kill someone … five times … they would … get bored.’ The Defence Professor breathed several times, before continuing. ‘But if you look at history … you will find some Dark Wizards … who could cast the Killing Curse … over and over. A nineteenth-century witch … who called herself Dark Evangel … the Aurors called her A. K. McDowell. She could cast the Killing Curse … a dozen times … in one fight. Ask yourself … as I asked myself … what is the secret … that she knew? What is deadlier than hate … and flows without limit?’</p>

    <p class="thought">A second level to the Avada Kedavra spell, just like with the Patronus Charm …</p>

    <p>‘I don’t really care,’ Harry answered.</p>

    <p>The Defence Professor chuckled wetly. ‘Good. You are … learning. So you see …’ A pause of transformation. <em class="parsel">‘I did not wi<span class="ps">s</span>h guard dead, after all. Ca<span class="ps">s</span>t Killing Cur<span class="ps">s</span>e, but not with hate.’</em> And then a man.</p>

    <p>Harry swallowed hard. It was both better, and worse, than what Harry had suspected; and characteristic enough of Professor Quirrell. A cracked soul, for certain; but Professor Quirrell had never claimed to be whole.</p>

    <p>‘Any else … to say?’ said the man in the bed.</p>

    <p>‘Are you absolutely sure,’ Harry said, ‘that there is nothing you’ve ever heard of that might save you, Professor? In all your lore? Finding and uniting all three Deathly Hallows, an ancient artefact that Merlin sealed behind a riddle nobody’s ever figured out? You’ve seen some of what I can do. That I’m good at solving riddles. You know I can figure things out, sometimes, that other wizards can’t. I&nbsp;–’ Harry’s voice broke. ‘I have a strong preference for your life, over your death, Professor Quirrell.’</p>

    <p>There was a long pause.</p>

    <p>‘One thing,’ whispered Professor Quirrell. ‘One thing … that might do it … or it might not … but to obtain it … is beyond your power, or mine …’</p>

    <p><em>Oh, it was just the setup for a sub-quest,</em> said Harry’s Inner Critic.</p>

    <p>All the other parts screamed for that part to shut up. Life didn’t work like that. Ancient artifacts could be found, but not in a month, not when you couldn’t leave Hogwarts and were still in your first year.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell took in a deep breath. Exhaled. ‘I’m sorry … that came out … too dramatic. Do not … get your hopes up … Mr&nbsp;Potter. You asked … for anything … no matter how unlikely. There is … a certain object … called …’</p>

    <p>A snake lay on the bed.</p>

    <p><em class="parsel">‘The Philo<span class="ps">s</span>opher’<span class="ps">s</span> <span class="ps">S</span>tone,’</em> hissed the snake.</p>

    <p>If there’d been a mass-manufacturable means of safe immortality this entire time and nobody had bothered, Harry was going to snap and kill everyone.</p>

    <p><em class="parsel">‘I read of it in a book,’</em> Harry hissed. <em class="parsel">‘Concluded it wa<span class="ps">s</span> obviou<span class="ps">s</span> myth. No reason why <span class="ps">s</span>ame device would provide immortality and endle<span class="ps">ss</span> gold. Not unle<span class="ps">ss</span> <span class="ps">s</span>omeone wa<span class="ps">s</span> ju<span class="ps">s</span>t inventing happy <span class="ps">s</span>torie<span class="ps">s</span>. Not to mention, every <span class="ps">s</span>ane per<span class="ps">s</span>on <span class="ps">s</span>hould have been re<span class="ps">s</span>earching way<span class="ps">s</span> to make more <span class="ps">S</span>tone<span class="ps">s</span>, or kidnapping maker to produce. Thought of you <span class="ps">s</span>pecifically, teacher.’</em></p>

    <p>A hissing of cold laughter. <em class="parsel">‘Rea<span class="ps">s</span>oning i<span class="ps">s</span> wi<span class="ps">s</span>e, but not wi<span class="ps">s</span>e enough. Like with horcrux <span class="ps">s</span>pell, ab<span class="ps">s</span>urdity hide<span class="ps">s</span> true <span class="ps">s</span>ecret. True <span class="ps">S</span>tone i<span class="ps">s</span> not what that legend <span class="ps">s</span>ay<span class="ps">s</span>. True power i<span class="ps">s</span> not what <span class="ps">s</span>torie<span class="ps">s</span> claim. <span class="ps">S</span>tone’s <span class="ps">s</span>uppo<span class="ps">s</span>ed maker wa<span class="ps">s</span> not one who made it. One who hold<span class="ps">s</span> it now, wa<span class="ps">s</span> not born to name now u<span class="ps">s</span>ed. Yet <span class="ps">S</span>tone i<span class="ps">s</span> powerful healing device in truth. Have you heard it <span class="ps">s</span>poken of?’</em></p>

    <p><em class="parsel">‘Ju<span class="ps">s</span>t in the book.’</em></p>

    <p><em class="parsel">‘One who hold<span class="ps">s</span> <span class="ps">S</span>tone i<span class="ps">s</span> repo<span class="ps">s</span>itory of much lore. Taught <span class="ps">s</span>choolma<span class="ps">s</span>ter many <span class="ps">s</span>ecret<span class="ps">s</span>. <span class="ps">S</span>choolma<span class="ps">s</span>ter ha<span class="ps">s</span> <span class="ps">s</span>aid nothing of <span class="ps">S</span>tone’<span class="ps">s</span> holder, nothing of <span class="ps">S</span>tone? No hint<span class="ps">s</span>?’</em></p>

    <p><em class="parsel">‘Not that I can ea<span class="ps">s</span>ily recall,’</em> Harry replied honestly.</p>

    <p><em class="parsel">‘Ah,’</em> hissed the snake. <em class="parsel">‘Ah, well.’</em></p>

    <p><em class="parsel">‘Could a<span class="ps">s</span>k <span class="ps">s</span>choolma<span class="ps">s</span>ter&nbsp;–’</em></p>

    <p><em class="parsel">‘No! Do not a<span class="ps">s</span>k him, boy. He would not take que<span class="ps">s</span>tion well.’</em></p>

    <p><em class="parsel">‘But if the <span class="ps">S</span>tone only heal<span class="ps">s</span>&nbsp;–’</em></p>

    <p><em class="parsel">‘<span class="ps">S</span>choolma<span class="ps">s</span>ter doe<span class="ps">s</span> not believe that, would not believe that. Too many have <span class="ps">s</span>ought <span class="ps">S</span>tone, or <span class="ps">s</span>ought holder’s lore. Do not a<span class="ps">s</span>k. Mu<span class="ps">s</span>t not a<span class="ps">s</span>k. Do not try to obtain <span class="ps">S</span>tone your<span class="ps">s</span>elf. I forbid.’</em></p>

    <p>A man lay on the bed once more. ‘I am at … my limit …’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘I must regain … my strength … before I go … to the forest … with your gift. Leave now … but sustain the Transfiguration … before you go.’</p>

    <p>Harry reached out, touched the white pebble lying within the kerchief, renewing the Transfiguration on it. ‘It should last for one hour and fifty-three minutes after this,’ Harry said.</p>

    <p>‘Your studies … do well.’</p>

    <p>It was far longer than Harry’s Transfigurations had lasted at the start of the school year. Second-year spells came to him easily now, without strain; which wasn’t surprising, since he would be twelve in less than two months. Harry could even have cast a Memory Charm, if it had been good for someone to forget every memory involving their left arm. He was climbing the power ladder, slowly, from very far down.</p>

    <p>The thought came with a potential for sadness, a thought of one door opening as another closed; which Harry also rejected.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>The door to the infirmary closed behind Harry, as the Boy-Who-Lived walked swiftly and with purpose, shrugging on his Invisibility Cloak as he moved. Soon, presumably, Professor Quirrell would call for assistance; and an older student trio would guide the Defence Professor into some quiet place, maybe the forest, with an excuse of viewing the lake or some such. Somewhere the Defence Professor could eat a unicorn undetected, after Harry’s Transfiguration wore off.</p>

    <p>And then Professor Quirrell would be healthier, for a time. His power would return to him as strong as he’d ever been, for a much shorter time.</p>

    <p>It wouldn’t last.</p>

    <p>Harry’s fists clenched as he strode, the tension radiating up his arm muscles. If the Defence Professor’s treatment regimen hadn’t been interrupted, by Harry and the Aurors that <em>he</em> had brought to Hogwarts …</p>

    <p>It was stupid to blame himself, Harry knew it was stupid and somehow his brain was doing it anyway. Like his brain was searching, carefully finding and selecting some way for this to be his fault, no matter how far it had to stretch.</p>

    <p>As if having things be his fault were the only way that his brain knew how to grieve.</p>

    <p>A trio of seventh-year Slytherins passed Harry’s invisible form in the hallway, heading for the healer’s offices where the Professor waited, looking deeply serious and concerned. Was that how other people grieved?</p>

    <p>Or did they, on some level, not really <em>care,</em> as Professor Quirrell thought?</p>

    <p class="thought">There is a second level to the Killing Curse.</p>

    <p>Harry’s brain had solved the riddle instantly, in the moment of first hearing it; as though the knowledge had always been inside him, waiting to make itself known.</p>

    <p>Harry had read once, somewhere, that the opposite of happiness wasn’t sadness, but boredom; and the author had gone on to say that to find happiness in life you asked yourself not what would make you happy, but what would excite you. And by the same reasoning, hatred wasn’t the true opposite of love. Even hatred was a kind of respect that you could give to someone’s existence. If you cared about someone enough to prefer their dying to their living, it meant you were thinking about them.</p>

    <p>It had come up much earlier, before the Trial, in conversation with Hermione; when she’d said something about magical Britain being Prejudiced, with considerable and recent justification. And Harry had thought – but not said – that at least she’d been let into Hogwarts to be spat upon.</p>

    <p>Not like certain people living in certain countries, who were, it was <em>said</em>, as human as anyone else; who were <em>said</em> to be sapient beings, worth more than any mere unicorn. But who nonetheless wouldn’t be allowed to live in Muggle Britain. On that score, at least, no Muggle had the right to look a wizard in the eye. Magical Britain might discriminate against Muggleborns, but at least it allowed them inside so they could be spat upon in person.</p>

    <p class="thought">What is deadlier than hate, and flows without limit?</p>

    <p>‘Indifference,’ Harry whispered aloud, the secret of a spell he would never be able to cast; and kept striding toward the library to read anything he could find, anything at all, about the Philosopher’s Stone.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>