<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
  <h1>Lateral Thinking</h1>

  <div class="calibre1">

    <p>As soon as he walked into the Defence classroom on Wednesday, Harry knew that <em>this</em> subject was going to be <em>different</em>.</p>

    <p>It was, for a start, the largest classroom he had yet seen at Hogwarts, akin to a university lecture hall, with layered tiers of desks facing a gigantic flat stage of white marble. The classroom was high up in the castle – on the fifth floor – and Harry knew that was as much explanation as he’d get for where a room like this was supposed to fit. It was becoming clear that Hogwarts simply did not <em>have</em> a geometry, Euclidean or otherwise; it had connections, not directions.</p>

    <p>Unlike a university hall, there weren’t rows of folding seats; instead there were quite ordinary Hogwarts wooden desks and wooden chairs, lined up in a curve across each level of the classroom. Except that each desk had a flat, white, rectangular, mysterious object propped up on it.</p>

    <p>In the centre of the gigantic platform, on a small raised dais of darker marble, was a lone teacher’s desk. At which Quirrell sat slumped over in his chair, head lolled back, drooling slightly over his robes.</p>

    <p class="thought">Now what does that remind me of … ?</p>

    <p>Harry had arrived at the lesson so early that no other students were there yet. (The English language was defective when it came to describing time travel; in particular, English lacked any words capable of expressing how convenient it was.) Quirrell didn’t seem to be … functional … at the moment, and Harry didn’t particularly feel like approaching Quirrell anyway.</p>

    <p>Harry selected a desk, climbed up to it, sat down, and retrieved the Defence textbook. He was around seven-eighths of the way through – he’d planned on finishing the book before this lesson, actually, but he was running behind schedule and had already used the Time-Turner twice today.</p>

    <p>Soon there were sounds as the classroom began to fill up. Harry ignored them.</p>

    <p>‘Potter? What are <em>you</em> doing here?’</p>

    <p><em>That</em> voice didn’t belong here. Harry looked up. ‘Draco? What are <em>you</em> doing in oh my god you have <em>minions</em>.’</p>

    <p>One of the lads standing behind Draco seemed to have rather a lot of muscle for an eleven-year-old, and the other was poised in a suspiciously balanced-looking stance.</p>

    <p>The white-blonde-haired boy smiled rather smugly and gestured behind him. ‘Potter, I introduce to you Mr&#160;Crabbe,’ his hand moved from Muscles to Balance, ‘Mr&#160;Goyle. Vincent, Gregory, this is Harry Potter.’</p>

    <p>Mr&#160;Goyle tilted his head and gave Harry a look that was probably supposed to mean something but ended up just looking squinty. Mr&#160;Crabbe said ‘Please to meetcha’ in a tone that sounded like he was trying to lower his voice as far as it could go.</p>

    <p>A fleeting expression of consternation crossed Draco’s face, but was quickly replaced by his superior grin.</p>

    <p>‘You have <em>minions!</em>’ Harry repeated. ‘Where do <em>I</em> get minions?’</p>

    <p>Draco’s smirk grew wider. ‘I’m afraid, Potter, that the first step is to be Sorted into Slytherin&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘What? That’s not fair!’</p>

    <p>‘– and then for your families to have an arrangement from before you were born.’</p>

    <p>Harry looked at Mr&#160;Crabbe and Mr&#160;Goyle. They both seemed to be trying very hard to loom. That is, they were leaning forwards, hunching over their shoulders, sticking their necks out and staring at him.</p>

    <p>‘Um … hold on,’ said Harry. ‘This was arranged <em>years</em> ago?’</p>

    <p>‘Exactly, Potter. I’m afraid you’re out of luck.’</p>

    <p>Mr&#160;Goyle produced a toothpick and began cleaning his teeth, still looming.</p>

    <p>‘And,’ said Harry, ‘Lucius insisted that you were <em>not</em> to grow up knowing your bodyguards, and that you were only to meet them on your first day of school.’</p>

    <p>That wiped the grin from Draco’s face. ‘Yes, Potter, we all know you’re brilliant, the whole school knows by now, you can stop showing off&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘So they’ve been told their <i>whole lives</i> that they’re going to be your minions and they’ve spent <em>years</em> imagining what minions are supposed to be like&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Draco winced.</p>

    <p>‘– and what’s worse, they <em>do</em> know <i>each other</i> and they’ve been <em>practising</em>&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘The boss told ya to shut it,’ rumbled Mr&#160;Crabbe. Mr&#160;Goyle bit down on his toothpick, holding it between his teeth, and used one hand to crack the knuckles on the other.</p>

    <p><i>‘I told you not to do this in front of Harry Potter!’</i></p>

    <p>The two looked a bit sheepish and Mr&#160;Goyle quickly put the toothpick back in a pocket of his robes.</p>

    <p>But the moment Draco turned away from them to face Harry again, they went back to looming.</p>

    <p>‘I apologise,’ Draco said stiffly, ‘for the insult which these <em>imbeciles</em> have offered you.’</p>

    <p>Harry gave a meaningful look to Mr&#160;Crabbe and Mr&#160;Goyle. ‘I’d say you’re being a little harsh on them, Draco. <em>I</em> think they’re acting exactly the way I’d want <em>my</em> minions to act. I mean, if I had any minions.’</p>

    <p>Draco’s jaw dropped.</p>

    <p>‘Hey, Gregory, you don’ think he’s tryna lure us away from the boss, do ya?’</p>

    <p>‘I’m sure Mr&#160;Potter wouldn’t be that foolish.’</p>

    <p>‘Oh, I wouldn’t dream of it,’ Harry said smoothly. ‘It’s just something to keep in mind if your current employer seems unappreciative. Besides, it never hurts to have other offers while you’re negotiating your working conditions, right?’</p>

    <p>‘What’s <em>he</em> doin’ in Ravenclaw?’</p>

    <p>‘I can’t imagine, Mr&#160;Crabbe.’</p>

    <p>‘Both of you <i>shut up</i>,’ Draco said through gritted teeth. ‘That’s an <em>order</em>.’ With a visible effort, he transferred his attention to Harry again. ‘Anyway, what’re you doing in the Slytherin Defence class?’</p>

    <p>Harry frowned. ‘Hold on.’ His hand went into his pouch. ‘Timetable.’ He looked over the parchment. ‘Defence, 2:30pm, and right now it’s …’ Harry looked at his mechanical watch, which read 11:23. ‘2:23, unless I’ve lost track of time. Did I?’ If he had, well, Harry knew how to get to whatever lesson he was <em>supposed</em> to be at. God he loved his Time-Turner and some day, when he was old enough, they would get married.</p>

    <p>‘No, that sounds right,’ Draco said, looking puzzled. His gaze turned to look over the rest of the auditorium, which was filling with green-trimmed robes and …</p>

    <p><em>‘Gryffindorks!’</em> spat Draco. ‘What’re <em>they</em> doing here?’</p>

    <p>‘Hm,’ Harry said. ‘Professor Quirrell did say … I forget his exact words … that he would be ignoring some of the Hogwarts teaching conventions. Maybe he just combined all his classes.’</p>

    <p>‘Huh,’ said Draco. ‘You’re the first Ravenclaw in here.’</p>

    <p>‘Yup. Got here early.’</p>

    <p>‘What’re you doing all the way in the back row, then?’</p>

    <p>Harry blinked. ‘I dunno, seemed like a good place to sit?’</p>

    <p>Draco made a scoffing sound. ‘You couldn’t get any further away from the teacher if you tried.’ The blonde-haired boy leaned slightly closer. ‘Anyway, is it true about what you said to Derrick and his crew?’</p>

    <p>‘Who’s Derrick?’</p>

    <p>‘You hit him with a pie?’</p>

    <p>‘Two pies, actually. What am I supposed to have said to him?’</p>

    <p>‘That he wasn’t doing anything cunning or ambitious and he was a disgrace to Salazar Slytherin.’ Draco was staring intently at Harry.</p>

    <p>‘That … sounds about right,’ Harry said. ‘I think it was more like, “is this some kind of incredibly clever plot that will gain you a future advantage or is it really as much of a disgrace to the memory of Salazar Slytherin as it looks like” or something like that. I don’t remember the exact words.’</p>

    <p>‘You’re confusing everyone, you know,’ said the blonde-haired boy.</p>

    <p>‘Huh?’ Harry said in honest confusion.</p>

    <p>‘Warrington said that spending a long time under the Sorting Hat is one of the warning signs of a major Dark Wizard. Everyone was talking about it, wondering if they should start sucking up to you just in case. Then you went and protected a bunch of <em>Hufflepuffs,</em> for Merlin’s sake. <em>Then</em> you told Derrick he’s a disgrace to Salazar Slytherin’s memory! What’s anyone <em>supposed</em> to think?’</p>

    <p>‘That the Sorting Hat decided to put me in the House of “Slytherin! Just kidding! Ravenclaw!” and I’ve been acting accordingly.’</p>

    <p>Mr&#160;Crabbe and Mr&#160;Goyle both giggled, causing Mr&#160;Goyle to quickly clap a hand to his mouth.</p>

    <p>‘We’d better go get our seats,’ Draco said. He hesitated, straightened a bit, spoke a bit more formally. ‘But I do want to continue our last conversation and I accept your conditions.’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded. ‘Would you mind terribly if I waited until Saturday afternoon? I’m in a bit of a contest right now.’</p>

    <p>‘A contest?’</p>

    <p>‘See if I can read all my textbooks as fast as Hermione Granger did.’</p>

    <p>‘Granger,’ Draco echoed. His eyes narrowed. ‘The mudblood who thinks she’s Merlin? If you’re trying to show <em>her</em> up then all Slytherin wishes you the <em>very</em> best luck, Potter, and I won’t bother you ’til Saturday.’ Draco inclined his head respectfully, and wandered off, tailed by his minions.</p>

    <p class="thought">Oh, this is going to be <em>so</em> much fun to juggle, I can already tell.</p>

    <p>The classroom was filling up rapidly now with all four colours of trim: green, red, yellow, and blue. Draco and his two friends seemed to be in the midst of trying to acquire three contiguous front-row seats – already occupied, of course. Mr&#160;Crabbe and Mr&#160;Goyle were looming vigorously, but it didn’t seem to be having much effect.</p>

    <p>Harry bent over his Defence textbook and continued reading.</p>

    <hr/>


</div>
</body>
</html>