<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
  <h1>Personhood Theory</h1>

  <div class="calibre1">
    <p>There comes a point in every plot where the victim starts to suspect; and looks back, and sees a trail of events all pointing in a single direction. And when that point comes, Father had explained, the prospect of the loss may seem so unbearable, and admitting themselves tricked may seem so humiliating, that the victim will yet deny the plot, and the game may continue long after.</p>

    <p>Father had warned Draco not to do that again.</p>

    <p>First, though, he’d let Mr&#160;Avery finish eating all of the cookies he’d swindled from Draco, while Draco watched and cried. The whole lovely jar of cookies that Father had given him just a few hours earlier, for Draco had lost all of them to Mr&#160;Avery, down to the very last one.</p>

    <p>So it was a familiar feeling that Draco had felt in the pit of his stomach, when Gregory told him about The Kiss.</p>

    <p>Sometimes you looked back, and saw things …</p>

    <p>(In a lightless classroom – you couldn’t quite call it <em>unused</em> any more, since it’d seen weekly use over the last few months – a boy sat enshrouded in a hooded cowl, with an unlighted crystal globe on the desk in front of him. Thinking in silence, thinking in darkness, waiting for an opening door to let in the light.)</p>

    <p>Harry had shoved Granger away and said, <i>I told you, no kissing!</i></p>

    <p>Harry would probably say something like, <i>She just did it to annoy me, last time, just like she made me go on that date.</i></p>

    <p>But the verified story was that Granger had been willing to face the Dementor again in order to help Harry; that she had kissed Harry, crying, when he was lost in the depths of Dementation; and that her kiss had brought him back.</p>

    <p>That didn’t sound like rivalry, even friendly rivalry.</p>

    <p>That sounded like the kind of friendship you usually didn’t see even in plays.</p>

    <p>Then why had Harry made his friend climb the icy walls of Hogwarts?</p>

    <p>Because that was the sort of thing Harry Potter did to his friends?</p>

    <p>Father had told Draco that to fathom a strange plot, one technique was to look at what <i>ended up</i> happening, assume it was the <em>intended</em> result, and ask who benefited.</p>

    <p>What had ended up happening as the result of Draco and Granger fighting Harry Potter together … was that Draco had started to feel a lot friendlier toward Granger.</p>

    <p>Who benefited from the scion of Malfoy becoming friends with a mudblood witch?</p>

    <p>Who benefited, that was famous for exactly that sort of plot?</p>

    <p>Who benefited, that could possibly be pulling Harry Potter’s strings?</p>

    <p>Dumbledore.</p>

    <p>And if that was true then Draco would <em>have</em> to go to Father and tell him everything, no matter what happened after that, Draco couldn’t imagine what would happen after that, it was awful beyond imagining. Which made him want to cling desperately to the last shred of hope that it wasn’t all what it looked like …</p>

    <p>… Draco remembered that, too, from Mr&#160;Avery’s lesson.</p>

    <p>Draco hadn’t planned to confront Harry yet. He was still trying to think of an experimental test, something that Harry wouldn’t just see through and fake. But then Vincent had come with the message that Harry wanted to meet early this week, on Friday instead of Saturday.</p>

    <p>And so here Draco was, in a dark classroom, an unlit crystal globe on his desk, waiting.</p>

    <p>Minutes passed.</p>

    <p>Footsteps approached.</p>

    <p>The door made a gentle creak as it swung open into the classroom, revealing Harry Potter dressed in his own hood and cowl; Harry stepped forward into the dark classroom, and the sturdy door closed behind him with a faint click.</p>

    <p>Draco tapped the crystal globe, and the classroom lit with bright green light. Green light projected shadows of the desks onto the floor, and glared back at him from the curved chair-backs, photons bouncing off the wood in such fashion that the angle of incidence equalled the angle of reflection.</p>

    <p>At least <em>that</em> much of what he’d learned wasn’t likely to be a lie.</p>

    <p>Harry had flinched as the light went on, halting for a moment, then resumed his approach. ‘Hello, Draco,’ Harry said quietly, drawing back his hood as he came to Draco’s desk. ‘Thank you for coming, I know it’s not our usual time&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘You’re welcome,’ Draco said flatly.</p>

    <p>Harry dragged one of the chairs to face Draco across his desk, the legs making a slight screeching sound on the floor. He spun the chair so that it was facing the wrong way, and sat down straddling it, his arms folded across the back of the chair. The boy’s face was pensive, frowning, serious, looking very adult even for Harry Potter.</p>

    <p>‘I have an important question to ask you,’ said Harry, ‘but there’s something else I want us to do before that.’</p>

    <p>Draco said nothing, feeling a certain weariness. Part of him just wanted it all to be over with already.</p>

    <p>‘Tell me, Draco,’ said Harry. ‘Why don’t Muggles ever leave ghosts behind when they die?’</p>

    <p>‘Because Muggles don’t have souls, obviously,’ Draco said. He didn’t even realize until after he’d said it that it might contradict Harry’s politics, and then he didn’t care. Besides, it <em>was</em> obvious.</p>

    <p>Harry’s face showed no surprise. ‘Before I ask my important question, I want to see if you can learn the Patronus Charm.’</p>

    <p>For a moment the sheer nonsequitur stumped Draco. Good old impossible-to-predict-or-understand Harry Potter. There were times when Draco wondered whether Harry was deliberately this disorienting as a tactic.</p>

    <p>Then Draco understood, and shoved himself up and away from his desk in a single angry motion. That was it. It was over. ‘Like <em>Dumbledore’s</em> servants,’ he spat.</p>

    <p>‘Like Salazar Slytherin,’ Harry said steadily.</p>

    <p>Draco almost stumbled over his own feet in the middle of his first stride toward the door.</p>

    <p>Slowly, Draco turned back toward Harry.</p>

    <p>‘I don’t know where you came up with that,’ said Draco, ‘but it’s wrong, everyone knows the Patronus Charm is a Gryffindor spell&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Salazar Slytherin could cast a corporeal Patronus Charm,’ Harry said. Harry’s hand darted into his robes, brought out a book whose title was written as white on green, and so almost impossible to read in the green light; but it looked old. ‘I discovered that when I was researching the Patronus Charm before. And I found the original reference and checked the book out of the library just in case you didn’t believe me. The author of this book doesn’t think there’s anything <em>unusual</em> about Salazar being able to cast a Patronus, either; the belief that Slytherins can’t do that must be recent. And as a further historical note, though I don’t have the book with me, Godric Gryffindor never could.’</p>

    <p>After the first six times Draco had tried calling Harry’s bluff, on six successively more ridiculous occasions, he’d realized that Harry just <em>didn’t</em> lie about what was written in books. Still, when Harry’s hands opened the book and laid it out to the place of a bookmark, Draco leaned over and studied the place where Harry’s finger pointed.</p>

    <p class="thought">Then the fires of Ravenclaw fell upon the darkness that had cloaked the left wing of Lord Foul’s army, breaking it, and it was revealed that the Lord Gryffindor had spoken true; the fear they all had felt was not natural in its source, but coming from thrice a dozen Dementors, who had been promised the souls of the defeated. At once the Lady Hufflepuff and Lord Slytherin brought forth their Patronuses, a vast angry badger and a bright silver serpent, and the defenders lifted their heads as the shadow passed from their hearts. And Lady Ravenclaw laughed, remarking that Lord Foul was a great fool, for now his own army would be subject to the fear, but not the defenders of Hogwarts. Yet the Lord Slytherin said, ‘No fool he, that much I know.’ And the Lord Gryffindor beside him studied the battlefield with a frown upon his face …</p>

    <p>Draco looked back up. ‘So?’</p>

    <p>Harry closed the book and put it into his pouch. ‘Chaos and Sunshine both have soldiers that can cast corporeal Patronus Charms. Corporeal Patronuses can be used to convey messages. If you can’t learn the spell, Dragon Army will be at a severe military disadvantage&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Draco didn’t care about that right now, and told Harry so. His voice was sharper than it probably should have been.</p>

    <p>Harry didn’t blink. ‘Then I’m calling in the favour you owe me from that time I stopped a riot from breaking out, on our first day of broomstick lessons. I’m going to try to teach you the Patronus Charm, and for my favour, I want you to do your honest best to learn and cast it. I trust to the honour of House Malfoy that you will.’</p>

    <p>Draco felt that certain weariness again. If Harry had asked at any other time, it would have been a fair return on favour owed, given that it wasn’t actually a Gryffindor spell. But …</p>

    <p><em>‘Why?’</em> Draco said.</p>

    <p>‘To find out whether you can do this thing that Salazar Slytherin could do,’ Harry said evenly. ‘This is an experimental test, and I will not tell you what it means until after you have done it. Will you?’</p>

    <p>… It probably <em>was</em> a good idea to discharge that favour on something innocuous, all the more so if it was time to break with Harry Potter. ‘All right.’</p>

    <p>Harry drew a wand from his robes, and laid it against the globe. ‘Not really the best colour for learning the Patronus Charm,’ Harry said. ‘Green light the exact shade of the Killing Curse, I mean. But silver is a Slytherin colour too, isn’t it? <em>Dulak.</em>’ The light went out, and Harry whispered the first two phrases of the Continual Light enchantment, recasting that part of it, though neither of them could have cast the whole thing by themselves. Then Harry tapped the globe again, and the room lit with a silver radiance, brilliant but still soft and gentle. Colour returned to the desks and chairs, and to Harry’s slightly sweaty face beneath his shock of black hair.</p>

    <p>It took that long for Draco to realize the implication. ‘You saw a <i>Killing Curse</i> cast since the last time we met? When – how&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Cast the Patronus Charm,’ Harry said, looking more serious than ever, ‘and I’ll tell you.’</p>

    <p>Draco pressed his hands to his eyes, shutting out the silver light. ‘You know, I really should remember that you’re too <em>weird</em> for any <em>normal</em> plots!’</p>

    <p>Within his self-imposed darkness, he heard the sound of Harry snickering.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Harry watched closely as Draco finished his latest run-through of the preliminary gestures, the part of the spell that was difficult to learn; the final brandish and the pronunciation didn’t have to be precise. All three of the last runs had been perfect as far as Harry could see. Harry had also felt an odd impulse to adjust things that Mr&#160;Lupin hadn’t said anything about, like the angle of Draco’s elbow or the direction his foot was pointing; it could have been entirely his own imagination, and probably was, but Harry had decided to go with it just in case.</p>

    <p>‘All right,’ Harry said quietly. There was a tension in his chest that made it a little hard to speak. ‘Now we don’t have a Dementor here, but that’s all right. We won’t need one. Draco, when your father spoke to me at the train station, he said that you were the one thing in the world that was most precious to him, and he threatened to throw away all his other plans to take vengeance on me, if ever you came to harm.’</p>

    <p>‘He … what?’ There was a catch in Draco’s voice, and a strange look on his face. ‘Why are you telling me <em>that?</em>’</p>

    <p>‘Why wouldn’t I?’ Harry didn’t let his expression change, though he could guess what Draco was thinking; that Harry had been plotting to separate Draco from his father, and shouldn’t be saying anything that would bring them closer together. ‘There’s always been just one person who matters most to you, and I know exactly what warm and happy thought will let you cast the Patronus Charm. You told it to me at the train station before the first day of school. Once you fell off a broomstick and broke your ribs. It hurt more than anything you’d ever felt, and you thought you were going to die. Pretend that fear is coming from a Dementor, standing in front of you, wearing a tattered black cloak, looking like a dead thing left in water. And then cast the Patronus Charm, and when you brandish the wand to drive the Dementor away, think of how your father held your hand, so that you wouldn’t be afraid; and then think of how much he loves you, and how much you love him, and put it all into your voice when you say <i>Expecto Patronum.</i> For the honour of House Malfoy, and not just because you promised me a favour. Show me you didn’t lie to me that day in the train station when you told me Lucius was a good father. Show me you can do what Salazar Slytherin could do.’</p>

    <p>And Harry stepped backward, behind Draco, out of Draco’s field of vision, so that Draco only faced the dusty old teacher’s desk and blackboard at the front of the unused classroom.</p>

    <p>Draco cast one look behind him, that strange look still on his face, and then turned away to face forward. Harry saw the exhalation, the inhalation. The wand twitched once, twice, thrice, and four times. Draco’s fingers slid along the wand, exactly the right distances –</p>

    <p>Draco lowered his wand.</p>

    <p>‘This is too&#160;–’ Draco said, ‘I can’t <em>think</em> this right, while you’re watching&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Harry turned around and started walking toward the door. ‘I’ll come back in a minute,’ Harry said. ‘Just hold to your happy thought, and the Patronus will stay.’</p>

    <hr/>


</div>
</body>
</html>