<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
<div class="calibre1">
<h1>Foreword</h1>
<p>Disclaimer: J. K. Rowling owns Harry Potter, and no one owns the methods of rationality.</p>
<p>This fic is widely considered to have really hit its stride starting at around Chapter 5. If you still don't like it after Book 1, give up.</p>
<p><strong>Please visit HPMOR DOT COM for:</strong></p>
<ul>
<li>Current Author's Notes and progress updates;</li>
<li>Lovely fan-made book-style PDF version;</li>
<li>Ad-free mirror of the text;</li>
<li>Ongoing podcast of the story;</li>
<li>Fan art in vast quantities;</li>
<li>Cameo list (characters named after fan artists);</li>
<li>Fan-fanfiction of this fanfiction;</li>
<li>Fan music, songs, and animations;</li>
<li>Fan translations;</li>
<li>The OKCupid keyword for HPMOR readers;</li>
<li>How to learn everything the main character knows;</li>
<li>Open job positions at a related nonprofit;</li>
<li>And ever so much more.</li>
</ul>
<p>Reviews make me happy. You can leave reviews on any chapter, no
login required, and there's no need to finish reading it all before
you start reviewing chapters - but do please leave at most
<em>one</em> review per chapter.</p>
<p>This is <em>not</em> a strict single-point-of-departure fic -
there exists a primary point of departure, at some point in the
past, but also other alterations. The best term I've heard for this
fic is ‘parallel universe’.</p>
<p>The text contains many clues: obvious clues, not-so-obvious
clues, truly obscure hints which I was shocked to see some readers
successfully decode, and massive evidence left out in plain sight.
This is a rationalist story; its mysteries are solvable, and meant
to be solved.</p>
<p>All science mentioned is real science. But please keep in mind
that, beyond the realm of science, the views of the characters may
not be those of the author. Not everything the protagonist does is
a lesson in wisdom, and advice offered by darker characters may be
untrustworthy or dangerously double-edged.</p>
<h2 id="sigil_toc_id_1">Trigger warnings</h2>
By reader request, a list of trigger warnings - parts of the story with potentially traumatic associations for some readers. These will contain some spoilers.
<a href="triggerwarnings.xhtml">Show trigger warnings</a>
</div>
</body>
</html>