<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Omake Files 1, 2, 3</h1>

<blockquote class="thought memory">
    <p>Hail the Dark Lord Rowling.</p>

    <p>‘Omake’ is a non-canonical extra.</p>
</blockquote>
<hr/>

    <p class="calibre7"><span class="calibre8">OMAKE FILES #1: 72 Hours to Victory</span></p>

    <p class="calibre7">(A.k.a. ‘What Happens If You Change Harry But Leave All Other Characters Constant’)</p>

    <p>Dumbledore peered over his desk at young Harry, twinkling in a kindly sort of way. The boy had come to him with a terribly intense look on his childish face – Dumbledore hoped that whatever this matter was, it wasn’t <em>too</em> serious. Harry was far too young for his life trials to be starting already. ‘What was it you wished to speak to me about, Harry?’</p>

    <p>Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres leaned forward in his chair, smiling grimly. ‘Headmaster, I got a sharp pain in my scar during the Sorting Feast. Considering how and where I got this scar, it didn’t seem like the sort of thing I should just ignore. I thought at first it was because of Professor Snape, but I followed the Baconian experimental method which is to find the conditions for both the presence and the absence of the phenomenon, and I’ve determined that my scar hurts if and only if I’m facing the back of Professor Quirrell’s head, whatever’s under his turban. While it <em>could</em> be something more innocuous, I think we should provisionally assume the worst, that it’s You-Know-Who – wait, don’t look so horrified, this is actually a priceless opportunity&nbsp;–’</p>

    <hr/>
</body>
</html>