<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<!--?sxml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
<div class="calibre1">
    <p>Thursday.</p>

    <p>If you wanted to be specific, 5:09pm on Thursday afternoon, in Professor McGonagall’s office, after flying classes. (With an extra hour for Harry slipped in between.)</p>

    <p>Professor McGonagall sitting on her stool. Harry in the hot seat in front of her desk.</p>

    <p>‘Professor,’ Harry said tightly, ‘Slytherin was pointing their wands at Hufflepuff, Gryffindor was pointing their wands at Slytherin, some <em>idiot</em> called wands out in Ravenclaw, and I had maybe five seconds to keep the whole thing from blowing sky-high! It was all I could think of!’</p>

    <p>Professor McGonagall’s face was pinched and angry. ‘<i>You are not to use the Time-Turner in that fashion, Mr&#160;Potter!</i> Is the concept of secrecy not something that you understand?’</p>

    <p>‘They don’t <i>know</i> how I did it! They just think I can do really weird things by snapping my fingers! I’ve done other weird stuff that can’t be done with Time-Turners even, and I’ll do <em>more</em> stuff like that, and <i>this</i> case won’t even stand out! I <i>had to do it,</i> Professor!’</p>

    <p>‘You did <em>not</em> have to do it!’ snapped Professor McGonagall. ‘All you needed to do was get this <i>anonymous Slytherin</i> back on the ground and the wands put away! You could have challenged him to a game of Exploding Snap but no, you had to use the Time-Turner in a flagrant and unnecessary manner!’</p>

    <p>‘It was all I could think of! I don’t even know what Exploding Snap <em>is,</em> they wouldn’t have accepted a game of chess and if I’d picked arm-wresting I would have lost!’</p>

    <p><i>‘Then you should have picked wrestling!’</i></p>

    <p>Harry blinked. ‘But then I’d have <em>lost</em>&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Harry stopped.</p>

    <p>Professor McGonagall was looking <em>very</em> angry.</p>

    <p>‘I’m sorry, Professor McGonagall,’ Harry said in a small voice. ‘I honestly didn’t think of that, and you’re right, I should have, it would have been brilliant if I had, but I just didn’t think of that at all …’</p>

    <p>Harry’s voice trailed off. It was suddenly apparent to him that he’d had a <em>lot</em> of other options. He could have asked <em>Draco</em> to suggest something, he could have asked the crowd … his use of the Time-Turner <em>had</em> been flagrant and unnecessary. There had been a giant space of possibilities, why had he picked <em>that</em> one?</p>

    <p>Because he’d seen a way to <em>win.</em> Win possession of an unimportant trinket that the teachers would’ve taken back from Mr&#160;Goyle anyway.</p>

    <p>Intent to win. That was what had got him.</p>

    <p>‘I’m sorry,’ Harry said again. ‘For my pride and my stupidity.’</p>

    <p>Professor McGonagall wiped a hand across her forehead. Some of her anger seemed to dissipate. But her voice still came out very hard. ‘One more display like that, Mr&#160;Potter, and you will be returning that Time-Turner. Do I make myself very clear?’</p>

    <p>‘Yes,’ Harry said. ‘I understand and I’m sorry.’</p>

    <p>‘Then, Mr&#160;Potter, you will be allowed to retain the Time-Turner for now. And considering the size of the debacle you did, in fact, avert, I will not deduct any points from Ravenclaw.’</p>

    <p><i>Plus you couldn’t explain why you’d deducted the points.</i> But Harry wasn’t dumb enough to say that out loud.</p>

    <p>‘More importantly, why did the Remembrall go off like that?’ Harry said. ‘Does it mean I’ve been Obliviated?’</p>

    <p>‘That puzzles me as well,’ Professor McGonagall said slowly. ‘If it were that simple, I would think that the courts would use Remembralls, and they do not. I shall look into it, Mr&#160;Potter.’ She sighed. ‘You can go now.’</p>

    <p>Harry started to get up from his chair, then halted. ‘Um, sorry, I did have something else I wanted to tell you&#160;–’</p>

    <p>You could hardly see the flinch. ‘What is it, Mr&#160;Potter?’</p>

    <p>‘It’s about Professor Quirrell&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘I’m sure, Mr&#160;Potter, that it is nothing of importance.’ Professor McGonagall spoke the words in a great rush. ‘Surely you heard the Headmaster tell the students that you were not to bother us with any unimportant complaints about the Defence Professor?’</p>

    <p>Harry was rather confused. ‘But this could <em>be</em> important, yesterday I got this sudden sense of doom when&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Mr&#160;Potter! I have a sense of doom as well! And my sense of doom is suggesting that <i>you must not finish that sentence!</i>’</p>

    <p>Harry’s mouth gaped open. Professor McGonagall had succeeded; Harry was speechless.</p>

    <p>‘Mr&#160;Potter,’ said Professor McGonagall, ‘if you have discovered anything that seems interesting about Professor Quirrell, please feel free not to share it with me or anyone else. Now I think you’ve taken up enough of my valuable time&#160;–’</p>

    <p><i>‘This isn’t like you!’</i> Harry burst out. ‘I’m sorry but that just seems <em>unbelievably</em> irresponsible! From what I’ve heard there’s some kind of jinx on the Defence position, and if you already <em>know</em> something’s going to go wrong, I’d think you’d all be on your toes&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Go <em>wrong</em>, Mr&#160;Potter? <i>I certainly hope not.</i>’ Professor McGonagall’s face was expressionless. ‘After Professor Blake was caught in a closet with no fewer than three fifth-year Slytherins last February, and a year before that, Professor Summers failed so completely as an educator that her students thought a boggart was a kind of furniture, it would be <em>catastrophic</em> if some problem with the extraordinarily competent Professor Quirrell came to my attention now, and I dare say most of our students would fail their Defence O.W.L.s and N.E.W.T.s.’</p>

    <p>‘I see,’ Harry said slowly, taking it all in. ‘So in other words, whatever’s wrong with Professor Quirrell, you desperately don’t want to know about it until the end of the school year. And since it’s currently September, he could assassinate the Prime Minister on live television and get away with it so far as you’re concerned.’</p>

    <p>Professor McGonagall gazed at him unblinkingly. ‘I am certain that I could never be heard endorsing such a statement, Mr&#160;Potter. At Hogwarts we strive to be proactive with respect to <em>anything</em> that threatens the educational attainment of our students.’</p>

    <p><i>Such as first-year Ravenclaws who can’t keep their mouths shut.</i> ‘I believe I understand you completely, Professor McGonagall.’</p>

    <p>‘Oh, I doubt that, Mr&#160;Potter. I doubt that very much.’ Professor McGonagall leaned forward, her face tightening again. ‘Since you and I have already discussed matters far more sensitive than these, I shall speak frankly. You, and you alone, have reported this mysterious sense of doom. You, and you alone, are a chaos magnet the likes of which I have never seen. After our little shopping trip to Diagon Alley, and <em>then</em> the Sorting Hat, and then <em>today’s</em> little episode, I can well foresee that I am fated to sit in the Headmaster’s office and hear some hilarious tale about Professor Quirrell in which you and you alone play a starring role, after which there will be no choice but to fire him. I am already resigned to it, Mr&#160;Potter. And if this sad event takes place any earlier than the Ides of May, I will string you up by the gates of Hogwarts with your own intestines and pour fire beetles into your nose. <em>Now</em> do you understand me completely?’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded, his eyes very wide. Then, after a second, ‘What do I get if I can make it happen on the last day of the school year?’</p>

    <p><i>‘Get out of my office!’</i></p>

    <hr/>


</div>
</body>
</html>