<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body><div class="calibre1">
    <p>It was later in the day, the Sun lowering in the summer sky and shoppers beginning to peter out from the streets. Some shops had already closed; Harry and Professor McGonagall had bought his textbooks from Flourish and Blotts just under the deadline. With only a slight explosion when Harry had made a beeline for the keyword ‘Arithmancy’ and discovered that the seventh-year textbooks invoked nothing more mathematically advanced than trigonometry.</p>

    <p>At this moment, though, dreams of low-hanging research fruit were far from Harry’s mind.</p>

    <p>At this moment, the two of them were walking out of Ollivander’s, and Harry was staring at his wand. He’d waved it, and produced multicoloured sparks, which really shouldn’t have come as such an extra shock after everything else he’d seen, but somehow –</p>

    <p class="thought">I can do magic.</p>

    <p class="thought">Me. As in, me personally. I am magical; I am a wizard.</p>

    <p>He had <em>felt</em> the magic pouring up his arm, and in that instant, realised that he had always had that sense, that he had possessed it his whole life, the sense that was not sight or sound or smell or taste or touch but only magic. Like having eyes but keeping them always closed, so that you didn’t even realise that you were seeing darkness; and then one day the eye opened, and saw the world. The shock of it had poured through him, touching pieces of himself, awakening them, and then died away in seconds; leaving only the certain knowledge that he was now a wizard, and always had been, and had even, in some strange way, always known it.</p>

    <p>And –</p>

    <p><i>‘It is very curious indeed that you should be destined for this wand when its brother why, its brother gave you that scar.’</i></p>

    <p>That could not <em>possibly</em> be coincidence. There had been <em>thousands</em> of wands in that shop. Well, okay, actually it <em>could</em> be coincidence, there were six billion people in the world and thousand-to-one coincidences happened every day. But Bayes’s Theorem said that any reasonable hypothesis which made it <em>more</em> likely than a thousand-to-one that he’d end up with the brother to the Dark Lord’s wand, was going to have an advantage.</p>

    <p>Professor McGonagall had simply said <i>how peculiar</i> and left it at that, which had put Harry into a state of shock at the sheer, overwhelming <em>incuriosity</em> of wizards and witches. In no <em>imaginable</em> world would Harry have just gone ‘Hm’ and walked out of the shop without even <em>trying</em> to come up with a hypothesis for what was going on.</p>

    <p>His left hand rose and touched his scar.</p>

    <p>What … <i>exactly …</i></p>

    <p>‘You’re a full wizard now,’ said Professor McGonagall. ‘Congratulations.’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded.</p>

    <p>‘And what do you think of the wizarding world?’ said she.</p>

    <p>‘It’s strange,’ Harry said. ‘I ought to be thinking about everything I’ve seen of magic … everything that I now know is possible, and everything I now know to be a lie, and all the work left before me to understand it. And yet I find myself distracted by relative trivialities like,’ Harry lowered his voice, ‘the whole Boy-Who-Lived thing.’ There didn’t seem to be anyone nearby, but no point tempting fate.</p>

    <p>Professor McGonagall <em>ahemmed</em>. ‘Really? You don’t say.’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded. ‘Yes. It’s just … <em>odd.</em> To find out that you were part of this grand story, the quest to defeat the great and terrible Dark Lord, and it’s already <em>done.</em> Finished. Completely over with. Like you’re Frodo Baggins and you find out that your parents took you to Mount Doom and had you toss in the Ring when you were one year old and you don’t even remember it.’</p>

    <p>Professor McGonagall’s smile had grown somewhat fixed.</p>

    <p>‘You know, if I were anyone else, anyone else at all, I’d probably be pretty worried about living up to that start. <i>Gosh, Harry, what have you done since you defeated the Dark Lord? Your own bookshop? That’s great! Say, did you know I named my child after you?</i> But I have hopes that this will not prove to be a problem.’ Harry sighed. ‘Still … it’s almost enough to make me wish that there were <em>some</em> loose ends from the quest, just so I could say that I really, you know, <em>participated</em> somehow.’</p>

    <p>‘Oh?’ said Professor McGonagall in an odd tone. ‘What did you have in mind?’</p>

    <p>‘Well, for example, you mentioned that my parents were betrayed. Who betrayed them?’</p>

    <p>‘Sirius Black,’ the witch said, almost hissing the name. ‘He’s in Azkaban. Wizarding prison.’</p>

    <p>‘How probable is it that Sirius Black will break out of prison and I’ll have to track him down and defeat him in some sort of spectacular duel, or better yet put a large bounty on his head and hide out in Australia while I wait for the results?’</p>

    <p>Professor McGonagall blinked. Twice. ‘Not likely. No one has ever escaped from Azkaban, and I doubt that <em>he</em> will be the first.’</p>

    <p>Harry was a bit sceptical of that ‘<i>no one</i> has <em>ever</em> escaped from Azkaban’ line. Still, maybe with magic you could actually get close to a 100% perfect prison, especially if you had a wand and they did not. The best way to get out would be to not go there in the first place.</p>

    <p>‘All right then,’ Harry said. ‘Sounds like it’s been nicely wrapped up.’ He sighed, scrubbing his palm over his head. ‘Or maybe the Dark Lord didn’t <em>really</em> die that night. Not completely. His spirit lingers, whispering to people in nightmares that bleed over into the waking world, searching for a way back into the living lands he swore to destroy, and now, in accordance with the ancient prophecy, he and I are locked in a deadly duel where the winner shall lose and the loser shall win&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Professor McGonagall’s head swivelled, and her eyes darted around, as though to search the street for listeners.</p>

    <p>‘I’m <em>joking</em>, Professor,’ Harry said with some annoyance. Sheesh, why did she always take everything so seriously –</p>

    <p>A slow sinking sensation began to dawn in the pit of Harry’s stomach.</p>

    <p>Professor McGonagall looked at Harry with a calm expression. A very, <em>very</em> calm expression. Then a smile was put on. ‘Of course you are, Mr&#160;Potter.’</p>

    <p class="thought">Aw crap.</p>

    <p>If Harry had needed to formalise the wordless inference that had just flashed into his mind, it would have come out something like, <i class="q">If I estimate the probability of Professor McGonagall doing what I just saw as the result of carefully controlling herself, versus the probability distribution for all the things she would do <em>naturally</em> if I made a bad joke, then this behaviour is significant evidence for her hiding something.</i></p>

    <p>But what Harry actually thought was, <i>Aw crap.</i></p>

    <p>Harry turned his own head to scan the street. Nope, no one nearby. ‘He’s <em>not</em> dead, is he,’ Harry sighed.</p>

    <p>‘Mr&#160;Potter&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘The Dark Lord is alive. Of <em>course</em> he’s alive. It was an <em>act</em> of utter <em>optimism</em> for me to have even <em>dreamed</em> otherwise. I <em>must</em> have taken leave of my <em>senses</em>, I can’t <em>imagine</em> what I was <em>thinking.</em> Just because <em>someone</em> said that his body was found burned to a <em>crisp</em>, I can’t imagine why I would have thought he was <i>dead. Clearly</i> I have much left to learn about the art of proper <em>pessimism.</em>’</p>

    <p>‘Mr&#160;Potter&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘At least tell me there’s not really a prophecy …’ Professor McGonagall was still giving him that bright, fixed smile. ‘Oh, you have <em>got</em> to be kidding me.’</p>

    <p>‘Mr&#160;Potter, you shouldn’t go inventing things to worry about&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Are you <em>actually</em> going to tell me <em>that?</em> Imagine my reaction later, when I find out that there was something to worry about after all.’</p>

    <p>Her fixed smile faltered.</p>

    <p>Harry’s shoulders slumped. ‘I have a whole world of magic to analyse. I do <em>not</em> have time for this.’</p>

    <p>Then both of them shut up, as a man in flowing orange robes appeared on the street and slowly passed them by; Professor McGonagall’s eyes tracked him, unobtrusively. Harry’s mouth was moving as he chewed hard on his lip, and someone watching closely would have noticed a tiny spot of blood appear.</p>

    <p>When the orange-robed man had passed into the distance, Harry spoke again, in a low murmur. ‘Are you going to tell me the truth now, Professor McGonagall? And don’t bother trying to wave it off, I’m not stupid.’</p>

    <p>‘You’re <i>eleven years old</i>, Mr&#160;Potter!’ she said in a harsh whisper.</p>

    <p>‘And therefore subhuman. Sorry … for a moment there, I <em>forgot</em>.’</p>

    <p>‘These are dreadful and important matters! They are <em>secret,</em> Mr&#160;Potter! It is a <em>catastrophe</em> that you, still a child, know even this much! You must not tell <em>anyone,</em> do you understand? Absolutely no one!’</p>

    <p>As sometimes happened when Harry got <em>sufficiently</em> angry, his blood went cold, instead of hot, and a terrible dark clarity descended over his mind, mapping out possible tactics and assessing their consequences with iron realism.</p>

    <p class="thought">Point out that you have a right to know: failure. Eleven-year-old children do not have rights to know anything, in McGonagall’s eyes.</p>

    <p class="thought">Say that you will not be friends any more: failure. She does not value your friendship sufficiently.</p>

    <p class="thought">Point out that you will be in danger if you do not know: failure. Plans have already been made based on your ignorance. The <em>certain</em> inconvenience of rethinking will seem far more unpalatable than the mere <em>uncertain</em> prospect of your coming to harm.</p>

    <p class="thought">Justice and reason will both fail. You must either find something you have that she wants, or find something you can do which she fears …</p>

    <p>Ah.</p>

    <p>‘Well then, Professor,’ Harry said in a low, icy tone, ‘it sounds like I have something you want. You can, if you like, tell me the truth, the <em>whole</em> truth, and in return I will keep your secrets. Or you can try to keep me ignorant so you can use me as a pawn, in which case I will owe you nothing.’</p>

    <p>McGonagall stopped short in the street. Her eyes blazed and her voice descended into an outright hiss. ‘How dare you!’</p>

    <p><i>‘How dare you!’</i> he whispered back at her.</p>

    <p>‘You would <em>blackmail</em> me?’</p>

    <p>Harry’s lips twisted. ‘I am <em>offering</em> you a <em>favour.</em> I am <em>giving</em> you a chance to protect <em>your</em> precious secret. If you refuse I will have <em>every</em> natural motive to make inquiries elsewhere, not to spite you, but because I <i>have to know!</i> Get past your pointless anger at a <em>child</em> who you think ought to obey you, and you’ll realise that any sane adult would do the same! <i>Look at it from my perspective! How would you feel if it was <em>you?</em></i>’</p>

    <p>Harry watched McGonagall, observed her harsh breathing. It occurred to him that it was time to ease off the pressure, let her simmer for a while. ‘You don’t have to decide right away,’ Harry said in a more normal tone. ‘I’ll understand if you want time to think about my <em>offer</em> … but I’ll warn you of one thing,’ Harry said, his voice going colder. ‘Don’t try that Obliviation spell on me. Some time ago I worked out a signal, and I have already sent that signal to myself. If I find that signal and I don’t <em>remember</em> sending it …’ Harry let his voice trail off significantly.</p>

    <p>McGonagall’s face was working as her expressions shifted. ‘I … wasn’t thinking of Obliviating you, Mr&#160;Potter … but why would you have <em>invented</em> such a signal if you didn’t know about&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘I thought of it while reading a Muggle science-fiction book, and said to myself, <i>well, just in case …</i> And no, I won’t tell you the signal, I’m not dumb.’</p>

    <p>‘I hadn’t planned to ask,’ McGonagall said. She seemed to fold in on herself, and suddenly looked very old, and very tired. ‘This has been an exhausting day, Mr&#160;Potter. Can we get your trunk, and send you home? I will trust you not to speak upon this matter until I have had time to think. Keep in mind that there are only two other people in the whole world who know about this matter, and they are Headmaster Albus Dumbledore and Professor Severus Snape.’</p>

    <p>So. New information; that was a peace offering. Harry nodded in acceptance, and turned his head to look forward, and started walking again, as his blood slowly began to warm over once more.</p>

    <p>‘So now I’ve got to find some way to kill an immortal Dark Wizard,’ Harry said, and sighed in frustration. ‘I really wish you had told me that <em>before</em> I started shopping.’</p>

    <hr/>


</div>
</body>
</html>