<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
<div class="calibre1">
    <hr/>

    <p>The sky had gone full blue-grey, dawn barely short of sunrise, by the time that Harry heard the sound of footsteps coming from the ladder that opened into his new office. Hastily Harry stood up and began to brush off his robes; and then, realising what he was doing, stopped the nervous motions. He’d just defeated Voldemort, damn it, he ought not to be this nervous.</p>

    <p>The young witch’s head and chestnut curls appeared in the opening and peered around. Then she rose up higher, seemed almost to run up the ladder steps, like she was walking along an ordinary pavement but vertically; Harry could have blinked and missed it, how her shoe came down on the top rung of the ladder and then she leaped lightly onto the roof an instant later.</p>

    <p><em>Hermione.</em> Harry’s lips moved around the word, but made no sound.</p>

    <p>There’d been something Harry had meant to say, but it had gone right out of his mind.</p>

    <p>Maybe a quarter of the minute passed, on the rooftop, before Hermione Granger spoke. She was wearing a blue-edged uniform now, and the blue-bronze-striped tie of her proper House.</p>

    <p>‘Harry,’ said Hermione Granger, a terribly familiar voice that almost brought tears to Harry’s eyes, ‘before I ask you all the questions, I’d like to start by saying thank you very much for, um, whatever it is you did. I mean it, really. Thank you.’</p>

    <p>‘Hermione,’ Harry said, and swallowed. The phrase <i>may I have permission to hug you,</i> which Harry had imagined using for his opening line, seemed impossible to say. ‘Welcome back. Hold on while I put up some privacy spells.’ Harry took the Elder Wand out of his robes, got a book from his pouch that he opened to a bookmark, and then carefully pronounced <i>‘Hominem Revelio,’</i> along with two other recently-acquired security Charms that Harry had found himself barely able to cast if he wielded the Elder Wand. It wasn’t much, but it was marginally better security than just relying on Professor Vector.</p>

    <p>‘You have Dumbledore’s wand,’ Hermione said. Her voice was hushed, and sounded as loud as an avalanche in the still dawn air. ‘And you can use it to cast fourth-year spells?’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded, making a mental note to be more careful who else saw him do that. ‘Is it okay if I hug you?’</p>

    <p>Hermione moved lightly over to him; her movements were peculiarly swift, more graceful than they’d been before. Her motions seemed to radiate an air of something pure and untouched, reminding Harry again of how peaceful Hermione had looked when she was sleeping on Voldemort’s altar –</p>

    <p>Realization hit Harry like a ton of bricks, or at least a kilogram of brick.</p>

    <p>And Harry hugged Hermione, feeling how very <em>alive</em> she seemed. He felt like crying, and suppressed it, because he didn’t know whether that was just her aura affecting him or not.</p>

    <p>Hermione’s arms around him were gentle, exceedingly light in their pressure, as if she were being deliberately careful not to snap his body in half like a used toothpick.</p>

    <p>‘So,’ Hermione said, once Harry had let go of her. Her young face looked very serious, as well as pure and innocent. ‘I didn’t tell the Aurors you were there, or that it was Professor Quirrell and not You-Know-Who who killed all the Death Eaters. Professor Flitwick only let them give me one drop of Veritaserum, so I didn’t have to say. I just told them the troll was the last thing I remembered.’</p>

    <p>‘Ah,’ Harry said. He had somehow found himself staring at Hermione’s nose instead of her eyes. ‘What do you think happened, exactly?’</p>

    <p>‘Well,’ Hermione Granger said thoughtfully, ‘I got eaten by a troll, which I’d frankly rather not do again, and then there was a really loud <em>bang</em> and my legs were back, and I was lying on a stone altar in the middle of a graveyard in a dark moonlit forest I’d never seen before, with somebody’s severed hands clutched around my throat. So you see, Mr&#160;Potter, finding myself in a situation that weird and dark and scary, I wasn’t going to make the same mistake I did last time with Tracey. I knew <i>right away</i> that it was you.’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded. ‘Good call.’</p>

    <p>‘I said your name, but you didn’t answer,’ said Hermione. ‘I sat up and one of the bloody hands slid down over my shirt, leaving little bits of flesh behind. I didn’t scream though, even when I looked around and saw all the heads and bodies and realized what the smell was.’ Hermione stopped, took another deep breath. ‘I saw the skull masks and realized that the dead people had been Death Eaters. I knew right away that the Defence Professor had been there with you and killed them all, but I didn’t notice Professor Quirrell’s body was also there. I didn’t realize it was him even when I saw Professor Flitwick checking the body. He looked … different, when he was dead.’ Hermione’s voice became quieter. She looked humbled somehow, in a way Harry couldn’t often remember seeing. ‘They said David Monroe sacrificed his life to bring me back, the same way your mother sacrificed herself for you, so that the Dark Lord would explode again when he tried to touch me. I’m <em>pretty</em> sure that’s not the whole truth, but … I’ve thought a lot of nasty things about our Defence Professor that I never should’ve thought.’</p>

    <p>‘Um,’ Harry said.</p>

    <p>Hermione nodded solemnly, her hands clasped in front of her as though in penitence. ‘I know you’re probably too nice to say the things to me that you have a right to say now, so I’ll say them for you, Harry. You were right about Professor Quirrell, and I was wrong. You told me so. David Monroe was a little bit Dark and a whole lot Slytherin, and it was childish of me to think that was the same thing as being evil.’</p>

    <p>‘Ah …’ Harry said. This was very hard to say. ‘Actually, the rest of the world doesn’t know this part, not even the Headmistress. But in point of fact you were one hundred and twelve percent correct about him being evil, and I’ll remember for future reference that although “Dark” and “evil” may not technically be the same thing, there’s a great big statistical correlation.’</p>

    <p>‘Oh,’ said Hermione, and fell silent again.</p>

    <p>‘You’re not saying that you told me so?’ said Harry. His mental model of Hermione was yelling: <span class="shout">I told you so! Didn’t I tell you so, Mr. Potter? Didn’t I tell you? Professor Quirrell is eeeeviiil, I said, but <i>you didn’t listen to me!</i></span></p>

    <p>The actual Hermione just shook her head. ‘I know you cared about him a lot,’ she said softly. ‘Since I was right after all … I knew you’d probably be hurting a lot after Professor Quirrell turned out to be evil, and that it wouldn’t be a good time to say I told you so. I mean, that’s what I decided when I was thinking that part through several months earlier.’</p>

    <p><i>Thank you, Miss&#160;Granger.</i> Harry was glad she’d said that much, though, it just wouldn’t have felt like Hermione otherwise.</p>

    <p>‘So, Mr&#160;Potter,’ said Hermione Granger, tapping her fingers on her robe at around thigh level. ‘After the medi-witch drew my blood, it stopped hurting right away, and when I brushed away the little bit of blood on my arm, I couldn’t find where the needle had poked me. I bent some of the metal in my bedframe without trying hard, and though I haven’t had a chance to test it yet, I feel like I should be able to run really <em>fast.</em> My fingernails are pearly-white and shiny even though I don’t remember painting them. And my teeth look like that too, which, being the daughter of dentists, makes me nervous. So it’s not that I’m ungrateful, but just what exactly did you do?’</p>

    <p>‘Um,’ Harry said. ‘And I’m expecting you’re also wondering why you’re radiating an aura of purity and innocence?’</p>

    <p>‘I’m <em>what?</em>’</p>

    <p>‘That part wasn’t my idea. Honestly.’ Harry’s voice went small. ‘Please don’t kill me.’</p>

    <p>Hermione Granger raised her hands in front of her face, staring somewhat cross-eyed at her fingers. ‘Harry, are you saying … I mean, my radiating innocence and being all fast and graceful and my teeth being pearly white … is it <em>alicorn</em> my fingernails are made of?’</p>

    <p>‘Alicorn?’</p>

    <p>‘It’s the term for unicorn horn, Mr&#160;Potter.’ Hermione Granger seemed to be trying to nibble her fingernails, and not having much luck. ‘So, I guess if you bring a girl back from the dead she ends up as, what did Daphne call it, a Sparkling Unicorn Princess?’</p>

    <p>‘That’s not exactly what happened,’ Harry said, though it was frighteningly close.</p>

    <p>Hermione took her finger out of her mouth, frowning at it. ‘I can’t bite through it either. Mr&#160;Potter, did you consider the problems now that it’s literally impossible for me to trim my fingernails and toenails?’</p>

    <p>‘The Weasley twins have a magical sword that should work,’ Harry volunteered.</p>

    <p>‘I think,’ Hermione Granger said firmly, ‘that I would like to know the whole story behind all this, Mr&#160;Potter. Because knowing you and knowing Professor Quirrell, there was some sort of <em>plan</em> going on.’</p>

    <p>Harry took a deep breath. Then he exhaled. ‘Sorry, it’s … classified. I could tell you if you studied Occlumency, but … do you want to?’</p>

    <p>‘Do I want to study Occlumency?’ Hermione said, looking slightly surprised. ‘That’s at least a sixth-year thing, isn’t it?’</p>

    <p>‘I learned it,’ Harry said. ‘I started with an unusual boost, but I doubt that really mattered in the long run. I mean, I’m sure you could learn calculus if you studied hard, regardless of what age Muggles usually learn it. The question is, um.’ Harry was having to control his breathing. ‘The question is, do you still want to do … that kind of stuff.’</p>

    <p>Hermione turned, and looked at where the sky was lightening in the east. ‘You mean,’ she said quietly, ‘do I still want to be a hero now that it’s earned me a horrible death that one time.’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded, then said ‘Yes’ because Hermione wasn’t turning toward him, though the word felt blocked in his throat.</p>

    <p>‘I’ve been thinking about that,’ Hermione said. ‘It was, in fact, an exceptionally gruesome and painful death.’</p>

    <p>‘I, um. I did set some things up <i>just in case</i> you still wanted to be a hero. There were some short windows of opportunity where I didn’t have time to consult you, I couldn’t let you see me because I expected you to be given Veritaserum later. But if you don’t like it, I can undo most of what I did and you can just ignore the rest.’</p>

    <p>Hermione nodded distantly. ‘Like making everyone think that I … Harry, <em>did</em> I actually do anything to You-Know-Who?’</p>

    <p>‘No, that was all me, though please don’t tell anyone that. Just so you know, that time the Boy-Who-Lived supposedly defeated Voldemort, on the night of Halloween in 1981, that was Dumbledore’s victory and he let everyone think it was me. So now I’ve defeated a Dark Lord once, and had the credit for it once. It all balances out eventually, I guess.’</p>

    <p>Hermione went on gazing to the east. ‘I’m not really comfortable with this,’ she said after a while. ‘People thinking I defeated the Dark Lord Voldemort, when I haven’t done anything at all … oh, that’s the same thing you went through, isn’t it?’</p>

    <p>‘Yeah. Sorry about inflicting that on you. I was … well, I was trying to create a separate identity for you in people’s minds, I guess. There was just the one opportunity and everything was sort of <em>rushed</em> and … I realized afterwards that maybe I shouldn’t have, but it was too late.’ Harry cleared his throat. ‘Though, um. If you’re feeling like you want to do something that’s actually worthy of the way people think about the Girl-Who-Revived, um. I might have an idea for what you can do. Very soon, if you want.’</p>

    <p>Hermione Granger was giving him a <em>look.</em></p>

    <p>‘But you don’t <em>have</em> to!’ Harry said hastily. ‘You can just ignore this whole thing and be the best student in Ravenclaw! If that’s what you prefer.’</p>

    <p>‘Are you trying to use reverse psychology on me, Mr&#160;Potter?’</p>

    <p>‘No! Honestly!’ Harry took a deep breath. ‘I’m <em>trying</em> not to decide your life for you. I thought I saw, yesterday, I thought I saw what might come next for you – but then I remembered how much of this year I’d spent being a total idiot. I thought of some things Dumbledore said to me. I realized it genuinely wasn’t my place to say. That you could do anything you wanted with your life, and that above all, the choice had to be your own. Maybe you <em>don’t</em> want to be a hero after this, maybe you want to become a great magical researcher because that’s who Hermione Granger really was all along, never mind what your fingernails are made out of now. Or you could go to the Salem Witches’ Institute in America instead of Hogwarts. I won’t lie and say I’d like that, but it really is up to you.’ Harry turned to the horizon and swept his hand wide, as though to indicate all the world that lay beyond Hogwarts. ‘You can go <em>anywhere</em> from here. You can do <em>anything</em> with your life. If you want to be a wealthy sixty-year-old merman, I can make it happen. I’m serious.’</p>

    <p>Hermione nodded slowly. ‘I’m curious about how you’d do that exactly, but what I want isn’t to have things done <em>for</em> me.’</p>

    <p>Harry sighed. ‘I understand. Um …’ Harry hesitated. ‘I think … if it helps you to know … in my case, things were being arranged for me a <em>lot</em>. By Dumbledore, mostly, though Professor Quirrell too. Maybe the power to earn your own way in life is itself something you have to earn.’</p>

    <p>‘Why, that sounds very wise,’ Hermione said. ‘Like my parents paying for me to go to university, so I can some day get my own job. Professor Quirrell bringing me back to life as a Sparkling Unicorn Princess and you telling everyone that I offed the Dark Lord Voldemort is just like that, really.’</p>

    <p>‘I <em>am</em> sorry,’ Harry said. ‘I know I should’ve done it differently, but … I didn’t have much time to plan and I was exhausted and not really thinking straight&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘I’m grateful, Harry,’ Hermione said, her voice softer now. ‘You’re being too harsh on yourself, even. Please don’t take it so seriously when I’m sarcastic to you. I don’t want to be the sort of girl who comes back from the dead, and then starts complaining about which superpowers she got and that her alicorn fingernails are the wrong shade of pearly white.’ Hermione had turned, was again gazing off at the east. ‘But, Mr&#160;Potter … if I <em>do</em> decide that dying a horrible death isn’t enough to make me rethink my life choices … not that I’m saying that just yet … then what happens next?’</p>

    <p>‘I do my best to support you in your life choices,’ Harry said firmly. ‘Whatever they are.’</p>

    <p>‘You have a quest already lined up for me, I’m guessing. A nice safe quest where there’s no chance of my getting hurt again.’</p>

    <p>Harry rubbed his eyes, feeling tired inside. It was like he could hear the voice of Albus Dumbledore inside his head. <i>Forgive me, Hermione Granger …</i> ‘I’m sorry, Hermione. If you go down that path I’m going to have to Dumbledore you, and not tell you some things. Manipulate you, if only for a short while. I do believe there’s something you might be able to do now, something real, something worthy of the way people are thinking about the Girl-Who-Revived … that you might have a destiny, even … but in the end that’s just a guess, I know a lot less than Dumbledore did. Are you willing to risk the life you just got back?’</p>

    <p>Hermione turned to look at him, her eyes widening in surprise. <i>‘Risk my life?’</i></p>

    <p>Harry didn’t nod, because that would have been outright lying. ‘Are you willing to do that?’ Harry said instead. ‘The quest that I think might be your destiny – and no, I don’t know any specific prophecies, it’s just a guess – involves literal descent-into-Hell type stuff.’</p>

    <p>‘I thought …’ Hermione said. She sounded uncertain. ‘I thought for sure that after this, you and Professor McGonagall wouldn’t … you know … let me do anything the least bit dangerous ever again.’</p>

    <p>Harry said nothing, feeling guilty about the false relationship credit he was getting. It was in fact the case that Hermione was modelling him with tremendous accuracy, and that if not for Hermione having a horcrux, the surface of the planet Venus would have dropped to fractional-Kelvin temperatures before Harry tried this.</p>

    <p>‘On a scale of zero to a hundred, <em>how</em> literal a descent into Hell are we talking about here?’ said Hermione. The girl now looked a bit worried.</p>

    <p>Harry mentally calibrated his scales, remembering Azkaban. ‘I’d say maybe eighty-seven?’</p>

    <p>‘This sounds like something I should do when I’m <em>older,</em> Harry. There’s a difference between being a hero and being a complete lunatic.’</p>

    <p>Harry shook his head. ‘I don’t think the risk would change much,’ Harry said, leaving aside the question of how much risk that really was, ‘and it’s the sort of thing that’s better done sooner, if someone does it at all.’</p>

    <p>‘And my parents don’t get a vote,’ Hermione said. ‘Or do they?’</p>

    <p>Harry shrugged. ‘We both know how they’d vote, and you can take that into account if you like. Um, I said for Mr and Mrs&#160;Granger not to be told yet that you’re alive. They’ll find out after you come back from your mission, if you choose to accept it. That seems a bit … kinder on your parents’ nerves, they just get the one pleasant surprise, instead of having to worry about, um, stuff.’</p>

    <p>‘Why, that’s very thoughtful of you,’ Hermione said. ‘It’s nice that you’re so concerned about their feelings. May I think about this for a few minutes, please?’</p>

    <p>Harry gestured toward the cushion he’d set down opposite his own, and Hermione moved over with fluid grace, and sat down to look out over the castle-edge, still radiating peacefulness all over the place. They’d really need to do something about that, maybe pay someone to invent an Anti-Purity Potion.</p>

    <p>‘Do I have to decide without knowing what the mission is?’ Hermione asked.</p>

    <p>‘Oh <em>hell</em> no,’ Harry said, thinking of a similar conversation before his own trip to Azkaban. ‘This is the sort of thing you have to choose freely if you do it at all. I mean that’s an actual mission requirement. If you say that you still want to be a hero, I’ll tell you afterwards about the mission – after you’ve had some time to eat and talk to people and recover a bit – and you’ll decide then if it’s something you want to do. And we’ll test in advance whether returning from death has allowed you to cast the spell that normal wizards think is impossible, <em>before</em> you go out.’</p>

    <p>Hermione nodded, and fell back into silence.</p>


</div>
</body>
</html>