<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body><div class="calibre1">
    <p>‘I’m sorry,’ said Professor Quirrell, ‘but we’re about to have company.’</p>

    <p>‘It’s fine,’ Harry whispered. ‘It was enough.’ He would never forget this day, and not because of the unimportant things that had happened earlier. He would learn how to cast that spell if it was the last thing he ever learned.</p>

    <p>Then the heavy oaken doors of the classroom blasted off their hinges and skittered across the marble floor with a high-pitched shriek.</p>

    <p><i class="shout">‘Quirinus! How dare you!’</i></p>

    <p>Like a vast thundercloud, an ancient and powerful wizard blew into the room, a look of such incandescent rage upon his face that the stern look he had earlier turned upon Harry seemed like nothing.</p>

    <p>There was a wrench of disorientation in Harry’s mind as the part that wanted to run away screaming from the scariest thing it had ever seen ran away, rotating into place a part of him which could take the shock.</p>

    <p><em>None</em> of Harry’s facets were happy about having their star-gazing interrupted. ‘Headmaster Albus Percival&#160;–’ Harry started to say in icy tones.</p>

    <p><i>Wham.</i> Professor Quirrell’s hand came down hard upon his desk. <i>‘Mr&#160;Potter!’</i> barked Professor Quirrell. ‘This is the <i>Headmaster of Hogwarts</i> and you are a mere student! You will address him appropriately!’</p>

    <p>Harry looked at Professor Quirrell.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell was giving Harry a stern glare.</p>

    <p>Neither of them smiled.</p>

    <p>Dumbledore’s long strides had come to a halt before where Harry stood in front of the dais and Professor Quirrell stood by his desk. The Headmaster stared in shock at both of them.</p>

    <p>‘I’m sorry,’ Harry said in meekly polite tones. ‘Headmaster, thank you for wanting to protect me, but Professor Quirrell did the right thing.’</p>

    <p>Slowly, Dumbledore’s expression changed from something that would vaporize steel into something merely angry. ‘I heard students saying that this man had you abused by older Slytherins! That he forbade you to defend yourself!’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded. ‘He knew exactly what was wrong with me and he showed me how to fix it.’</p>

    <p>‘Harry, <i>what are you talking about?</i>’</p>

    <p>‘I was teaching him how to lose,’ Professor Quirrell said dryly. ‘It’s an important life skill.’</p>

    <p>It was apparent that Dumbledore still didn’t understand, but his voice had lowered in register. ‘Harry …’ he said slowly. ‘If there’s any threat the Defence Professor has offered you to prevent you from complaining&#160;–’</p>

    <p class="thought">You lunatic, after today of all days do you really think I –</p>

    <p>‘Headmaster,’ Harry said, trying to look abashed, ‘what’s wrong with me isn’t that I keep quiet about abusive professors.’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell chuckled. ‘Not perfect, Mr&#160;Potter, but good enough for your first day. Headmaster, did you stay long enough to hear about the fifty-one points for Ravenclaw, or did you storm out as soon as you heard the first part?’</p>

    <p>A brief look of disconcertion crossed Dumbledore’s face, followed by surprise. ‘Fifty-one points for Ravenclaw?’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell nodded. ‘He wasn’t expecting them, but it seemed appropriate. Tell Professor McGonagall that I think the story of what Mr&#160;Potter went through to earn back the lost points will do just as well to make her point. No, Headmaster, Mr&#160;Potter didn’t tell me anything. It’s easy to see which part of today’s events are her work, just as I know that the final compromise was your own suggestion. Though I wonder how on Earth Mr&#160;Potter was able to gain the upper hand over both Snape and you and then Professor McGonagall was able to gain the upper hand over him.’</p>

    <p>Somehow Harry managed to control his face. Was it <em>that</em> obvious to a real Slytherin?</p>

    <p>Dumbledore came closer to Harry, scrutinizing. ‘Your colour looks a little off, Harry,’ the old wizard said. He peered closely at Harry’s face. ‘What did you have for lunch today?’</p>

    <p>‘What?’ Harry said, his mind wobbling in sudden confusion. Why would Dumbledore be asking about deep-fried lamb and thin-sliced broccoli when that was just about the <em>last</em> probable cause of –</p>

    <p>The old wizard straightened up. ‘Never mind, then. I think you’re fine.’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell coughed, loudly and deliberately. Harry looked at the professor, and saw that Professor Quirrell was staring sharply at Dumbledore.</p>

    <p><em>‘Ah-hem!’</em> Professor Quirrell said again.</p>

    <p>Dumbledore and Professor Quirrell locked eyes, and something seemed to pass between them.</p>

    <p>‘If you don’t tell him,’ Professor Quirrell said then, ‘I will, even if you fire me for it.’</p>

    <p>Dumbledore sighed and turned back to Harry. ‘I apologize for invading your mental privacy, Mr&#160;Potter,’ the Headmaster said formally. ‘I had no purpose except to determine if Professor Quirrell had done the same.’</p>

    <p class="thought">What?</p>

    <p>The confusion lasted just exactly as long as it took Harry to understand what had just happened.</p>

    <p><i>‘You – !’</i></p>

    <p>‘Gently, Mr&#160;Potter,’ said Professor Quirrell. His face was hard, however, as he stared at Dumbledore.</p>

    <p>‘Legilimency is sometimes mistaken for common sense,’ said the Headmaster. ‘But it leaves traces which another skilful Legilimens can detect. That was all I looked for, Mr&#160;Potter, and I asked you an irrelevant question to ensure you wouldn’t think about anything important while I looked.’</p>

    <p><i>‘You should have asked first!’</i></p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell shook his head. ‘No, Mr&#160;Potter, the Headmaster had some justification for his concerns, and had he asked for permission you would have thought of exactly those things you did not wish him to see.’ Professor Quirrell’s voice grew sharper. ‘I am rather more concerned, Headmaster, that you saw no need to tell him afterwards!’</p>

    <p>‘You have now made it more difficult to confirm his mental privacy on future occasions,’ Dumbledore said. He favoured Professor Quirrell with a cold look. ‘Was that your intention, I wonder?’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell’s expression was implacable. ‘There are too many Legilimens in this school. I insist that Mr&#160;Potter receive instruction in Occlumency. Will you permit me to be his tutor?’</p>

    <p>‘Absolutely not,’ Dumbledore said at once.</p>

    <p>‘I did not think so. Then since <em>you</em> have deprived him of my free services, <em>you</em> will pay for Mr&#160;Potter’s tutoring by a licensed Occlumency instructor.’</p>

    <p>‘Such services do not come cheaply,’ Dumbledore said, looking at Professor Quirrell in some surprise. ‘Although I do have certain connections&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell shook his head firmly. ‘No. Mr&#160;Potter will ask his account manager at Gringotts to recommend a neutral instructor. With respect, Headmaster Dumbledore, after the events of this morning I must protest you or your friends having access to Mr&#160;Potter’s mind. I must also insist that the instructor have taken an Unbreakable Vow to reveal nothing, and that he agree to be Obliviated of each session immediately afterwards.’</p>

    <p>Dumbledore was frowning. ‘Such services are <em>extremely</em> expensive, as you well know, and I cannot help but wonder why <em>you</em> deem them necessary.’</p>

    <p>‘If it’s money that’s the problem,’ Harry spoke up, ‘I have some ideas for making large amounts of money quickly&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Thank you Quirinus, your wisdom is now quite evident and I am sorry for disputing it. Your concern for Harry Potter does you credit, as well.’</p>

    <p>‘You’re welcome,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘I hope you will not object if I go on making him a particular focus of my attentions.’ Professor Quirrell’s face was now very serious, and very still.</p>

    <p>Dumbledore looked at Harry.</p>

    <p>‘It is my own wish also,’ Harry said.</p>

    <p>‘So that’s how it is to be …’ the old wizard said slowly. Something strange passed across his face. ‘Harry … you must realize that if you choose this man as your teacher and your friend, your first mentor, then one way or another you will lose him, and the manner in which you lose him may or may not allow you to ever get him back.’</p>

    <p>That hadn’t occurred to Harry. But there <em>was</em> that jinx on the Defence position … one which had apparently worked with perfect regularity for decades …</p>

    <p>‘Probably,’ said Professor Quirrell quietly, ‘but he will have the full use of me while I last.’</p>

    <p>Dumbledore sighed. ‘I suppose it is economical, at least, since as the Defence Professor you’re <em>already</em> doomed in some unknown fashion.’</p>

    <p>Harry had to work hard to suppress his expression as he realized what Dumbledore had actually been implying.</p>

    <p>‘I will inform Madam Pince that Mr&#160;Potter is allowed to obtain books on Occlumency,’ said Dumbledore.</p>

    <p>‘There is preliminary training which you must do on your own,’ said Professor Quirrell to Harry. ‘And I do suggest that you hurry up on it.’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded.</p>

    <p>‘I’ll take my leave of you then,’ said Dumbledore. He nodded to both Harry and Professor Quirrell, and departed, walking a bit slowly.</p>

    <p>‘Can you cast the spell again?’ Harry said the moment Dumbledore was gone.</p>

    <p>‘Not today,’ said Professor Quirrell quietly, ‘and not tomorrow either, I’m afraid. It takes a lot out of me to cast, though less to keep going, and so I usually prefer to maintain it as long as possible. This time I cast it on impulse. Had I thought, and realized we might be interrupted&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Dumbledore was now Harry’s least favourite person in the entire world.</p>

    <p>They both sighed.</p>

    <p>‘Even if I only ever see it once,’ Harry said, ‘I will never stop being grateful to you.’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell nodded.</p>

    <p>‘Have you heard of the Pioneer programme?’ Harry said. ‘They were probes that would fly by different planets and take pictures. Two of the probes would end up on trajectories that took them out of the Solar System and into interstellar space. So they put a golden plaque on the probes, with a picture of a man, and a woman, and showing where to find our Sun in the galaxy.’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell was silent for a moment, then smiled. ‘Tell me, Mr&#160;Potter, can you guess what thought went through my mind when I finished assembling the thirty-seven items on the list of things I would never do as a Dark Lord? Put yourself in my shoes – imagine yourself in my place – and guess.’</p>

    <p>Harry imagined himself looking over a list of thirty-seven things not to do once he became a Dark Lord.</p>

    <p>‘You decided that if you had to follow the <em>whole</em> list <em>all</em> the time, there wouldn’t be much point in becoming a Dark Lord in the first place,’ Harry said.</p>

    <p>‘<em>Precisely</em>,’ said Professor Quirrell. He was grinning. ‘So I am going to violate rule two – which was simply “don’t brag” – and tell you about something I have done. I don’t see how the knowledge could do any harm. And I strongly suspect you would have figured it out anyway, once we knew each other well enough. Nonetheless … I shall have your oath never to speak of what I am about to tell.’</p>

    <p>‘You have it!’ Harry had a feeling this was going to be <em>really</em> good.</p>

    <p>‘I subscribe to a Muggle bulletin which keeps me informed of progress on space travel. I didn’t hear about Pioneer 10 until they reported its launch. But when I discovered that Pioneer 11 would also be leaving the Solar System forever,’ Professor Quirrell said, his grin the widest that Harry had yet seen from him, ‘I sneaked into NASA, I did, and I cast a lovely little spell on that lovely golden plaque which will make it last a lot longer than it otherwise would.’</p>

    <p>…</p>

    <p>…</p>

    <p>…</p>

    <p>‘Yes,’ Professor Quirrell said, who now seemed to be standing around fifty feet taller, ‘I thought that was how you might react.’</p>

    <p>…</p>

    <p>…</p>

    <p>…</p>

    <p>‘Mr&#160;Potter?’</p>

    <p>‘… I can’t think of anything to say.’</p>

    <p>‘“You win” seems appropriate,’ said Professor Quirrell.</p>

    <p>‘You win,’ Harry said immediately.</p>

    <p>‘See?’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘We can only imagine what giant heap of trouble you would have landed in if you had been unable to say that.’</p>

    <p>They both laughed.</p>

    <p>A further thought occurred to Harry. ‘You didn’t add any extra information to the plaque, did you?’</p>

    <p>‘Extra information?’ said Professor Quirrell, sounding as if the idea had never occurred to him before and he was quite intrigued.</p>

    <p>Which made Harry rather suspicious, considering that it’d taken less than a minute for <em>Harry</em> to think of it.</p>

    <p>‘Maybe you included a holographic message like in <i>Star Wars?</i>’ said Harry. ‘Or … hm. A portrait seems to store a whole human brain’s worth of information … you couldn’t have added any extra mass to the probe, but maybe you could’ve turned an existing part into a portrait of yourself? Or you found a volunteer dying of a terminal illness, sneaked them into NASA, and cast a spell to make sure their <em>ghost</em> ended up in the plaque&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Mr&#160;Potter,’ Professor Quirrell said, his voice suddenly sharp, ‘a spell requiring a human death would certainly be classified by the Ministry as Dark Arts, regardless of circumstances. Students should not be heard talking about such things.’</p>

    <p>And the amazing thing about the way Professor Quirrell said it was how perfectly it maintained plausible deniability. It had been said in exactly the appropriate tone for someone who wasn’t willing to discuss such things and thought students should steer away from them. Harry honestly <i>didn’t know</i> whether Professor Quirrell was just waiting to talk about it until after Harry had learned to protect his mind.</p>

    <p>‘Got it,’ Harry said. ‘I won’t talk with anyone else about that idea.’</p>

    <p>‘Please be discreet about the whole matter, Mr&#160;Potter,’ Professor Quirrell said. ‘I prefer to go through my life without attracting public notice. You will find nothing in the newspapers about Quirinus Quirrell until I decided it was time for me to teach Defence at Hogwarts.’</p>

    <p>That seemed a little sad, but Harry understood. Then Harry realized the implications. ‘So just how much awesome stuff <em>have</em> you done that no one else knows about&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Oh, some,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘But I think that’s quite enough for today, Mr&#160;Potter, I confess I am feeling a bit tired&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘I understand. And <i>thank you.</i> For <em>everything</em>.’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell nodded, but he was leaning harder on his desk.</p>

    <p>Harry quickly took his leave.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>