<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body><div class="calibre1">
    <hr/>

    <p>When Hermione woke the third time (though it felt like she’d only closed her eyes for a moment) the Sun was even lower in the sky, almost fully set. She felt a little more alive and, strangely, even more exhausted. This time it was Professor Flitwick who was standing next to her bed and shaking her shoulder, a tray of steaming food floating next to him. For some reason she’d thought Harry Potter ought to be leaning over her bedside, but he wasn’t there. Had she dreamed that? She couldn’t remember dreaming.</p>

    <p>It developed (according to Professor Flitwick) that Hermione had missed dinner in the Great Hall, and was being woken to eat. And then she could go back to the Ravenclaw dorm, and her own bed, to sleep the rest of the night.</p>

    <p>She ate in silence. There was a part of her that wanted to ask Professor Flitwick whether <em>he</em> thought she’d been Memory-Charmed or she’d tried to kill Draco Malfoy of her own will –</p>

    <p class="thought">– like she remembered doing –</p>

    <p>– but most of her was afraid to find out. <i>Afraid to find out</i> was a warning sign, according to Harry Potter and his books; but her mind felt tired, <em>bruised,</em> and she couldn’t muster the strength to override it.</p>

    <p>When she and Professor Flitwick left the infirmary they found Harry Potter sitting cross-legged outside the door, quietly reading a psychology textbook.</p>

    <p>‘I’ll take her from here,’ said the Boy-Who-Lived. ‘Professor McGonagall said it would be all right.’</p>

    <p>Professor Flitwick seemed to accept this, and departed after a stern look at both of them. She couldn’t imagine what the stern look was supposed to say, unless it was <i>don’t try to kill any more students.</i></p>

    <p>The footsteps of Professor Flitwick faded, and the two of them stood alone outside the doors of the infirmary.</p>

    <p>She looked at the green eyes of the Boy-Who-Lived, the unruly hair that didn’t quite obscure the scar on his forehead; she looked upon the face of the boy who’d given all his money to save her without a second thought. There were feelings inside her – guilt, shame, embarrassment, other things as well – but no words. There was nothing she knew how to say.</p>

    <p>‘So,’ Harry said abruptly, ‘I did a quick skim through my psychology books to see what they said about post-traumatic stress disorder. The old books said you should talk about the experience immediately afterwards with a counsellor. The newer research says that when they actually ran experiments, it turned out that talking about it immediately afterwards made it worse. Apparently what you really ought to do is run with your mind’s natural impulse to repress the memories and just not think about it for a while.’</p>

    <p>It was so <em>normal</em> for the way she and Harry usually talked that she felt a sudden burning in her throat.</p>

    <p><i>We don’t have to talk about it.</i> That was what Harry had just said, more or less. It felt like cheating, maybe even like a lie. Nothing <em>was</em> normal. Everything wrong was still horribly wrong, everything left unsaid still needed to be said …</p>

    <p>‘Okay,’ said Hermione, because there wasn’t anything else to say, anything else at all.</p>

    <p>‘I’m sorry I wasn’t waiting when you woke up,’ Harry said, as they started to walk. ‘Madam Pomfrey wouldn’t let me in, so I just stayed out here.’ He gave a small, sad-looking shrug. ‘I suppose I should be out there trying to run damage control on public relations, but … honestly I’ve never been good at that, I just end up speaking sharply at people.’</p>

    <p>‘How bad is it?’ She thought her voice should have come out in a whisper, a croak, but it didn’t.</p>

    <p>‘Well&#160;–’ Harry said with obvious hesitation. ‘The thing you’ve got to understand, Hermione, is that you had a lot of defenders at breakfast-time today, but everyone on your side was … <i>making stuff up</i>. Draco tried to kill you first, things like that. It was Granger versus Malfoy, that’s how people saw it, like a see-saw where pushing his side down meant pushing your side up. I told them you were probably <em>both</em> innocent, that you’d both been Memory-Charmed. They didn’t listen, both sides treated me like a traitor trying to play the middle. And then people heard that Draco had testified under Veritaserum that he’d been trying to help you before the battle – stop making that expression, Hermione, you didn’t actually do anything to him. Anyway, all people understood was that the pro-Malfoy faction had been right and the pro-Granger faction had been wrong.’ Harry gave a small sigh. ‘I <em>told</em> them that when the truth came out later they’d be embarrassed …’</p>

    <p>‘How bad is it?’ she said again. This time her voice did come out weaker.</p>

    <p>‘Remember Asch’s conformity experiment?’ Harry said, turning his head to give her a serious look.</p>

    <p>Her mind was <i>slow to remember</i> for a few seconds, which frightened her, but then the reference came back. In 1951, Solomon Asch had taken some experimental subjects, and each one had been put among a row of other people who looked like them, seeming like other experimental subjects, but actually confederates of the experimenter. They’d shown a reference line on a screen, labelled X, next to three other lines, labelled A, B, and C. The experimenter had asked which line X was the same length as. The correct answer had obviously been C. The other <i class="q">subjects</i>, the confederates, had one after another said that X was the same length as B. The real subject had been put second-to-last in the order, so as not to arouse suspicion by being last. The test had been to see whether the real subject would <i class="q">conform</i> to the standard wrong answer of B, or voice the obviously correct answer of C.</p>

    <p>75% of the subjects had <i class="q">conformed</i> at least once. A third of the subjects had conformed more than half the time. Some had reported afterwards actually believing that X was the same length as B. And that had been in a case where the subjects hadn’t known any of the confederates. If you put people around others who belonged to the same group as them, like someone in a wheelchair next to other people in a wheelchair, the conformity effect got even stronger …</p>

    <p>Hermione had a sickening feeling where this was going. ‘I remember,’ she whispered.</p>

    <p>‘I gave the Chaos Legion anti-conformity training, you know. I had each Legionnaire stand in the middle and say “Twice two is four!” or “Grass is green!” while everyone else in the Chaos Legion called them idiots or sneered at them – Allen Flint did really good sneers – or even just gave them blank looks and then walked away. The thing you’ve got to remember is, <em>only</em> the Chaos Legion has ever practised anything like that. Nobody else in Hogwarts even knows what conformity <em>is.</em>’</p>

    <p>‘Harry!’ Her voice was wobbling. ‘How bad <em>is</em> it?’</p>

    <p>Harry gave another sad-looking shrug. ‘Everyone in the second year and above, since they don’t know you. Everyone in Dragon Army. All of Slytherin, of course. And, well, most of the rest of magical Britain too, I think. Remember, Lucius Malfoy controls the <i>Daily Prophet</i>.’</p>

    <p>‘Everyone?’ she whispered. Her limbs had started to feel cold, like she’d just got out of an unheated swimming pool.</p>

    <p>‘What people really believe doesn’t feel like a <em>belief</em>, it feels like the way the world <em>is.</em> You and I are standing in a private little bubble of the universe where Hermione Granger got Memory-Charmed. Everyone else is living in the world where Hermione Granger tried to murder Draco Malfoy. If Ernie Macmillan&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Her breath caught in her throat. <i>Captain Macmillan –</i></p>

    <p>‘– thinks he’s ethically prohibited from being your friend now, well, he’s trying to do the right thing as he understands it, in the world he thinks he lives in.’ Harry’s eyes were very serious. ‘Hermione, you’ve told me a lot of times that I look down too much on other people. But if I expected too much of them – if I expected people to get things <em>right</em> – I really would hate them, then. Idealism aside, Hogwarts students don’t <em>actually</em> know enough cognitive science to take responsibility for how their own minds work. It’s not their fault they’re crazy.’ Harry’s voice was strangely gentle, almost like an adult’s. ‘I know it’s going to be harder on you than it would be on me. But remember, eventually the real culprit gets nailed. The truth comes out, everyone who was confidently wrong gets embarrassed.’</p>

    <p>‘And if the real culprit doesn’t get caught?’ she said in a trembling voice.</p>

    <p class="thought">… or if it turns out to be me after all?</p>

    <p>‘Then you can leave Hogwarts and go to the Salem Witches’ Institute in America.’</p>

    <p><i>‘Leave Hogwarts?’</i> She’d never even thought of that possibility except as an ultimate punishment.</p>

    <p>‘I … Hermione, I think you might want to do that anyway. Hogwarts isn’t a castle, it’s insanity with walls. You <em>have</em> got other options.’</p>

    <p>‘I’ll …’ she stammered. ‘I’ll have … to think about it …’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded. ‘At least nobody’s going to try hexing you, not after what the Headmaster said at dinner tonight. Oh, and Ron Weasley came up to me, looking very serious, and told me that if I saw you first, I should tell you that he’s sorry for having thought badly of you, and he’ll never speak ill of you again.’</p>

    <p>‘<em>Ron</em> believes I’m innocent?’ said Hermione.</p>

    <p>‘Well … he doesn’t think you’re <em>innocent,</em> per se …’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>The whole Ravenclaw dorm went silent as the two of them walked in.</p>

    <p>Staring at them.</p>

    <p>Staring at her.</p>

    <p>(She’d had nightmares like this.)</p>

    <p>And then, one by one, people looked away from her.</p>

    <p>Penelope Clearwater, the 5th-year prefect in charge of first-years, looked away slowly and deliberately, turning her head to face in another direction.</p>

    <p>Su Li and Lisa Turpin and Michael Corner, all sitting at a table together, all of whom she’d helped with their homework at one time or another, all looked away, their faces suddenly nervous, the moment she tried to catch their eyes.</p>

    <p>A third-year witch named Latisha Randle, whom <abbr>S.P.H.E.W.</abbr> had twice saved from Slytherin bullies, quickly bent back over her desk and started doing homework again.</p>

    <p>Mandy Brocklehurst looked away from her.</p>

    <p>If Hermione didn’t burst into tears, then, it was only because she’d expected it, had played it out in her mind over and over again. At least people weren’t screaming at her or shoving her or hexing her. They were just looking away –</p>

    <p>Hermione walked very straight up to the staircase that led toward the first-year girl’s dorms. (She didn’t see Padma Patil or Anthony Goldstein looking at her, those two lone heads turning to track her as she left.) From behind her, she heard Harry Potter saying in a very calm tone, ‘Now eventually the truth’s going to come out, all of you. So if you’re all that confident she’s guilty, can I ask you all to sign this paper right here, saying that if she later turns out to be innocent, she gets to say “I told you so” and then hold it over you for the rest of your lives? Step on up, one and all, don’t be cowards, if you really believe you shouldn’t be afraid to bet&#160;–’</p>

    <p>She was halfway up the stairs when she realized that there would be other girls inside her dorm, too.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>The stars hadn’t quite come out yet, only one or two of the brightest ones visible through the reddish-purple haze of the horizon, though the Sun had fully sunk.</p>

    <p>Hermione’s hands dug into the harsh stone of the parapet guarding the small balcony, where she’d ducked out of the stairwell after realizing that –</p>

    <p>– <i>she couldn’t just go back to bed</i> –</p>

    <p>– the words echoed in her mind like <i class="q">You can’t go home again</i> ought to sound.</p>

    <p>She stared out at the empty grounds, the fading sunset, the sprouting grass so far below.</p>

    <p>Tired, she was tired, she couldn’t think now, she needed to sleep. Professor Flitwick had told her that she needed to sleep, and there’d been yet another potion with her dinner. Maybe that was how wizarding society treated horrible traumas to innocent young girls, just made them sleep a lot afterwards.</p>

    <p>She should go to her room and sleep, but she was afraid to go somewhere where other people were. Afraid of how they might look at her, or look away.</p>

    <p>Fragments of thought chased themselves around a mind too exhausted to finish or connect them, as the night fully set in.</p>

    <p class="thought">Why –</p>

    <p class="thought">Why did all this happen –</p>

    <p class="thought">Everything was fine a week ago –</p>

    <p class="thought">Why –</p>

    <p>From behind her came the creaky sound of an opening door.</p>

    <p>She turned her head and looked.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell was leaning against the doorway she’d walked through, silhouetted like a cardboard cut-out by the light of the Hogwarts torches lit behind him, in the open door. She couldn’t see his expression, though the doorway behind him was bright; his eyes, his face, everything she could see from here lay within night’s shadow.</p>

    <p>The Defence Professor of Hogwarts, number one on the list of people who might’ve done this. She hadn’t even realized she <em>had</em> a suspect list until that moment.</p>

    <p>The man stood within that doorway, saying nothing; and she couldn’t see his eyes. What was he even <em>doing</em> there in the first place –</p>

    <p>‘Are you here to kill me?’ said Hermione Granger.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell’s head tilted at that.</p>

    <p>Then the Defence Professor started toward her, the dark silhouette raising one hand slowly and deliberately, as though to push her off the Ravenclaw tower –</p>

    <p><em>‘Stupefy!’</em></p>

    <p>The burst of adrenaline overrode everything, she drew her wand without thinking, her lips formed the word of their own accord, the stunbolt leapt out of her wand and –</p>

    <p>– <i>slowed to a stop</i> in front of Professor Quirrell’s raised hand, rippling in mid-air like it was still trying to fly and making a slight hissing sound.</p>

    <p>The red glow illuminated Professor Quirrell’s face for the first time, showing a strange fond smile.</p>

    <p>‘Better,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘Miss&#160;Granger, you are still a student in my Defence class. As such, if you consider me a threat, I do not expect you to just look at me sadly and ask if I am there to kill you. Minus two Quirrell points.’</p>

    <p>She was entirely unable to form words.</p>

    <p>The Defence Professor flicked his forefinger casually at the suspended stunbolt, sending the hex shooting back over her head, far into the night, so that they stood again in darkness. Then Professor Quirrell walked out of the doorway, which swung shut behind him; and a soft white light sprung up around the two of them, so that she could see his face once more, still with that strange fond smile.</p>

    <p>‘What are you – what are you <em>doing</em> here?’</p>

    <p>A few more steps took Professor Quirrell to a higher part of the balcony’s ramparts, where he put his elbows down on the stone, and leaned over heavily, looking up into the night.</p>

    <p>‘I came here straight upon being released by the Aurors, the moment I finished reporting to the Headmaster,’ said Professor Quirrell in a quiet voice, ‘because I am your teacher, and you are my student, and I am responsible for you.’</p>

    <p>Hermione understood, then; remembering what Professor Quirrell had said to Harry in the second Defence lesson of the year, about controlling his anger. She felt the flush of shame all the way down her chest. It took a moment after that for knowledge to override mortification, for her to force out the words –</p>

    <p>‘I&#160;–’ said Hermione. ‘Harry thinks – that I <em>didn’t</em> – lose my temper, I mean&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘So I heard,’ said Professor Quirrell in rather dry tones. He shook his head, as though at the stars themselves. ‘The boy is fortunate that I have crossed the line from annoyance at his self-destructiveness, into sheer curiosity as to what he will do next. But I agree with Mr&#160;Potter’s assessment of the facts. This crime was well-planned to evade detection both by the wards of Hogwarts and the Headmaster’s timely eye. Naturally, in such a thoughtful murder, some innocent would be placed to take the blame.’ A brief, wry smile crossed the Defence Professor’s lips, though he wasn’t looking at her. ‘As for the notion that you did it yourself – I consider myself a talented teacher, but even I could not teach such murderous intent to a student as obstinate and untalented as Hermione Granger.’</p>

    <p>The part of her brain that said <em>What?</em> in indignation wasn’t anywhere near loud enough to reach her lips.</p>

    <p>‘No …’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘That is not why I am here. You have made no effort to hide your dislike for me, Miss&#160;Granger. I thank you for that lack of pretence, for I much prefer true hate to false love. But you are still my student, and I have a word to say to you, if you will hear it.’</p>

    <p>Hermione looked at him, still fighting down the after-effects of the adrenaline from before. The Defence Professor seemed to be just staring up at the dark sky, in which the stars were becoming visible.</p>

    <p>‘I was going to be a hero, once,’ said Professor Quirrell, still looking upward. ‘Can you believe that, Miss&#160;Granger?’</p>

    <p>‘No.’</p>

    <p>‘Thank you again, Miss&#160;Granger. It is true nonetheless. Long ago, long before your time or Harry Potter’s, there was a man who was hailed as a saviour. The destined scion, such a one as anyone would recognize from tales, wielding justice and vengeance like twin wands against his dreadful nemesis.’ Professor Quirrell gave a soft, bitter laugh, looking up at the night sky. ‘Do you know, Miss&#160;Granger, at that time I thought myself already cynical, and yet … well.’</p>

    <p>The silence stretched, in the cold and the night.</p>

    <p>‘In all honesty,’ said Professor Quirrell, looking up at the stars, ‘I still don’t understand it. They should have known that their lives depended on that man’s success. And yet it was as if they tried to do everything they could to make his life <em>unpleasant.</em> To throw every possible obstacle into his way. I was not naive, Miss&#160;Granger, I did not expect the power-holders to align themselves with me so quickly – not without something in it for themselves. But their power, too, was threatened; and so I was shocked how they seemed content to step back, and leave to that man all burdens of responsibility. They sneered at his performance, remarking among themselves how they would do better in his place, though they did not condescend to step forward.’ Professor Quirrell shook his head as though in bemusement. ‘And it was the strangest thing – the Dark Wizard, that man’s dread nemesis – why, those who served <em>him</em> leapt eagerly to their tasks. The Dark Wizard grew crueller toward his followers, and they followed him all the more. Men fought for the chance to serve <em>him</em>, even as those whose lives depended on that other man made free to render his life difficult … I could not understand it, Miss&#160;Granger.’ Professor Quirrell’s face was in shadow, as he looked upward. ‘Perhaps, by taking on himself the curse of action, that man removed it from all others? Was that why they felt free to hinder his battle against the Dark Wizard who would have enslaved them all? Believing men would act in their own interest was not cynicism, it turned out, but sheerest optimism; in reality men do not meet so high a standard. And so in time that one realized he might do better fighting the Dark Wizard alone, than with such followers at his back.’</p>

    <p>‘So&#160;–’ Hermione’s voice sounded strange in the night. ‘You left your friends behind where they’d be safe, and tried to attack the Dark Wizard all by yourself?’</p>

    <p>‘Why, no,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘I stopped trying to be a hero, and went off to do something else I found more pleasant.’</p>

    <p><em>‘What?’</em> said Hermione without thinking at all. ‘That’s <em>horrible!</em>’</p>

    <p>The Defence Professor turned his head down from the sky to regard her; and she saw, in the light of the doorway, that he was smiling – or at least half his face was smiling. ‘Are you going to tell me, Miss&#160;Granger, that I am an awful person? Well, perhaps I am. But then are people who never even try to be heroes still worse? If I had never done anything at all, like them, would you have thought better of me?’</p>

    <p>Hermione opened her mouth and then found that, once again, she didn’t have anything to say. It wasn’t right to walk away from being a hero, you couldn’t just <em>do</em> that, but she didn’t <em>want</em> to say that everyone who wasn’t a hero was nothing, that was Quirrell-thinking …</p>

    <p>The smile, or half-smile, had disappeared. ‘You were foolish,’ the Defence Professor said quietly, ‘to expect any lasting gratitude from those you tried to protect, once you named yourself a heroine. Just as you expected that man to go on being a hero, and called him horrible for stopping, when a thousand others never lifted a finger. It was only <em>expected</em> that you should fight bullies. It was a tax you owed, and they accepted it like princes, with a sneer for the lateness of your payment. And you have already witnessed, I wager, that their fondness vanished like dust in the wind once it was no longer in their interest to associate with you …’</p>

    <p>The Defence Professor slowly straightened up from the balcony, standing almost erect, turning to regard her fully.</p>

    <p>‘But you don’t have to be a hero, Miss&#160;Granger,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘You can stop anytime you please.’</p>

    <p>That idea …</p>

    <p>… <em>had</em> occurred to her before, several times over the last two days.</p>

    <p><i>People become who they are meant to be, by doing what is right,</i> Headmaster Dumbledore had told her. The trouble was that there seemed to be two different right things to do. There was the part of her which said that <em>right</em> was to go on being a heroine, and stay at Hogwarts, she didn’t know what was going on but a heroine wouldn’t just run away.</p>

    <p>And there was also the voice of common sense saying that young children shouldn’t ever stay around danger, that was what adults were for; the voice of every school poster that said not to take sweets from strangers. That was also right.</p>

    <p>Hermione Granger stood there on that balcony, looking at Professor Quirrell silhouetted by the emerging stars, and she didn’t understand; she didn’t understand how the Defence Professor could be gazing at her with his face showing concern; she didn’t understand the notes of pain in the Defence Professor’s voice that caught at her; she didn’t understand <em>why</em> she was being told all this.</p>

    <p>‘You don’t even like me, Professor,’ said Hermione.</p>

    <p>A small smile flickered on Professor Quirrell’s face. ‘I suppose I could go on about how I am angered that this affair has taken up my valuable time and disrupted my Defence classes. But mostly, Miss&#160;Granger, you are my student, and whatever other professions I may have once held, I think I have been a good teacher at Hogwarts, have I not?’ Suddenly Professor Quirrell’s eyes seemed very tired. ‘As your teacher, then, I am advising you that you have other career options. I should not like to see anyone else going down my path.’</p>

    <p>Hermione swallowed. It was a side of Professor Quirrell she’d never seen or imagined, and it was eating away at her preconceptions.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell watched her for a moment, and then looked away from her again, back up at the stars. When he spoke this time his voice was quieter. ‘Someone here is targeting you, Miss&#160;Granger, and I cannot ward you as I warded Mr&#160;Malfoy. The Headmaster has prevented it, for what he claims to be good reasons. It is easy to become fond of Hogwarts, I know, for I am fond of it as well. But in France they take a different view of the Ancient Houses than in Britain; and Beauxbatons would not mistreat you, I think. Whatever else you imagine of me, I swear that if you asked me to see you safely to Beauxbatons, I would do all in my power to convey you there.’</p>

    <p>‘I can’t just&#160;–’ Hermione said.</p>

    <p>‘But you <em>can,</em> Miss&#160;Granger.’ Now the pale blue eyes watched her intently. ‘Whatever you wish to make of your life, you cannot attain it at Hogwarts, not any more. This place is ruined for you now, even leaving aside all other threats. Simply ask Harry Potter to command you to go to Beauxbatons and live out your life in peace. If you stay here, he is your master in the eyes of Britain and its laws!’</p>

    <p>She hadn’t even been thinking about that, it paled so much in comparison to being eaten by Dementors; it had been important to her before, but now it all seemed childish, unimportant, pointless, so why were her eyes burning?</p>

    <p>‘And if that fails to move you, Miss&#160;Granger, consider also that Mr&#160;Potter has, just today at lunchtime, threatened Lucius Malfoy, Albus Dumbledore, and the entire Wizengamot because he cannot think sensibly when something threatens to take you from him. Are you not frightened of what he will do next?’</p>

    <p>It made sense. Terrible sense. Dreadful awful sense.</p>

    <p>It made <i>too much</i> sense –</p>

    <p>She couldn’t have described it in words, what triggered the realization, unless it was the sheer <em>pressure</em> that the Defence Professor was exerting on her.</p>

    <p>That if the Defence Professor <em>was</em> behind this whole thing – then Professor Quirrell had done it all <i>just to get her out of the way of his plans for Harry.</i></p>

    <p>Without any conscious decision, she shifted her weight to the other foot, her body moving away from the Defence Professor –</p>

    <p>‘So you think I am the one responsible?’ said Professor Quirrell. His voice sounded a little sad as he said it, and her own heart almost stopped from hearing it. ‘I suppose I cannot blame you. I am the Defence Professor of Hogwarts, after all. But Miss&#160;Granger, even <em>assuming</em> that I am your enemy, common sense should still tell you to get away from me <i>very quickly</i>. You cannot use the Killing Curse, so the correct tactic is to Apparate away. I do not mind being the villain of your imagination if it makes matters clearer. Leave Hogwarts, and leave me to those who can handle me. I will arrange for the transportation to be through some family of good repute, and Mr&#160;Potter will know to blame me if you do not arrive safely.’</p>

    <p>‘I&#160;–’ She was feeling cold, the night air chilling her skin, or maybe being chilled by it. ‘I’ve got to think about it&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell shook his head. ‘No, Miss&#160;Granger. Your departure will take time for me to arrange, and I have less time left than you may think. This decision may be painful for you, but it should not be ambiguous; much weighs in the balance of these scales, but not evenly. I must know tonight whether you intend to go.’</p>

    <p class="thought">And if not –</p>

    <p>Was the Defence Professor warning her deliberately? That if she didn’t run, he would strike again?</p>

    <p>Why would it matter so much, what did Professor Quirrell want to <em>do</em> with Harry?</p>

    <p class="thought">Hermione Granger, I shall be less subtle than is usual for a mysterious old wizard, and tell you outright that you cannot <em>imagine</em> how badly things could go if the events surrounding Harry Potter turn to ill.</p>

    <p>The most powerful wizard in the world had told her that, when he was talking about how important it was that she <em>not</em> stop being Harry’s friend.</p>

    <p>Hermione swallowed, she swayed a little where she stood, on the stone balcony of a magical castle. Suddenly the whole deadly absurdity of the situation seemed to rise up and grab her by the throat, that twelve-year-old girls <em>shouldn’t</em> be in danger, <em>shouldn’t</em> be thinking about such things, that Mum would want her to <i>run away</i> and her father would have a heart attack if he even knew she was being faced with the question.</p>

    <p>And she knew, then, as Harry and Dumbledore had both tried to warn her, that everything she’d ever thought about being a heroine had been mistaken. That there wasn’t really any such thing as heroes, outside of stories. There was just horrible danger, and being arrested by Aurors and put in cells next to Dementors, pain and fear and –</p>

    <p>‘Miss&#160;Granger?’ said the Defence Professor.</p>

    <p>She said nothing. All the words were blocked in her throat.</p>

    <p>‘I need a decision, Miss&#160;Granger.’</p>

    <p>She kept her jaw locked, didn’t let any words come out.</p>

    <p>Finally the Defence Professor sighed. Slowly the white light failed, and slowly the door behind him swung open, so that he was once again a black silhouette against the opening. ‘Good night, Miss&#160;Granger,’ he said, and turned his back to her, and walked away into Hogwarts.</p>

    <p>It took a while for her breathing to slow down again. Whatever had happened here tonight, it didn’t feel anything like victory. She’d fought so hard just to stop herself from saying <em>Yes</em> in the face of the Defence Professor’s pressure, and now she didn’t even know if she’d done the right thing.</p>

    <p>When she walked back into the light herself (after exhaustion had overtaken everything and sleep was once more a possibility), she thought she heard it as she was within the doorway, from behind her and above her, a distant cawing cry.</p>

    <p>But it wasn’t meant for her, she knew, so she started climbing up the stairs toward her dorm.</p>

    <p>The other girls were probably asleep by now, and wouldn’t look at her, or look away –</p>

    <p>She felt the tears start, and this time she didn’t stop them.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>