<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
<div class="calibre1">
    <p>In the dungeons of Slytherin.</p>

    <p>An unused classroom lit with eerie green light, much brighter this time and coming from a small crystal globe with a temporary enchantment, but eerie green light nonetheless, casting strange shadows from the dusty desks.</p>

    <p>Two boy-sized figures in cowled grey cloaks (no masks) had entered in silence, and sat down in two chairs opposite the same desk.</p>

    <p>It was the second meeting of the Bayesian Conspiracy.</p>

    <p>Draco Malfoy hadn’t been sure if he should look forward to it or not.</p>

    <p>Harry Potter, judging by the expression on his face, didn’t seem to have any doubts on the appropriate mood.</p>

    <p>Harry Potter looked like he was ready to kill someone.</p>

    <p>‘Hermione Granger,’ said Harry Potter, just as Draco was opening his mouth. ‘<i>Don’t ask</i>.’</p>

    <p><i>He couldn’t have gone on another date, could he?</i> thought Draco, but that didn’t make any sense.</p>

    <p>‘Harry,’ said Draco, ‘I’m sorry but I have to ask this anyway, did you <em>really</em> order the mudblood girl an expensive mokeskin pouch for her birthday?’</p>

    <p>‘Yes, I did. You’ve already worked out why, of course.’</p>

    <p>Draco reached up and raked fingers through his hair in frustration, his cowl brushing the back of his hand. He <em>hadn’t</em> been quite sure why, but now he couldn’t say so. And Slytherin <em>knew</em> he was courting Harry Potter, he’d made it obvious enough in Defence class. ‘Harry,’ said Draco, ‘people know I’m friends with you, they don’t know about the Conspiracy of course, but they know we’re friends, and it makes <em>me</em> look bad when you do that sort of thing.’</p>

    <p>Harry Potter’s face tightened. ‘Anyone in Slytherin who can’t understand the concept of acting nice toward people you don’t actually like should be ground up and fed to pet snakes.’</p>

    <p>‘There are a lot of people in Slytherin who <em>don’t,</em>’ Draco said, his voice serious. ‘Most people are stupid, and you have to look good in front of them anyway.’ Harry Potter <em>had</em> to understand that if he ever wanted to get anywhere in life.</p>

    <p>‘What do <em>you</em> care what other people think? Are you really going to live your life needing to explain everything you do to the dumbest idiots in Slytherin, letting <em>them</em> judge <em>you?</em> I’m sorry, Draco, but I’m not lowering my cunning plots to the level of what the dumbest Slytherins can understand, just because it might make you look bad otherwise. Not even your friendship is worth that. It would <i>take all the fun out of life.</i> Tell me <em>you</em> haven’t ever thought the same thing when someone in Slytherin is being too stupid to breathe, that it’s beneath the dignity of a Malfoy to have to pander to them.’</p>

    <p>Draco genuinely hadn’t. Ever. Pandering to idiots was like breathing, you did it without thinking about it.</p>

    <p>‘Harry,’ Draco said at last. ‘Just doing whatever you want, without worrying about how it looks, isn’t smart. The <i>Dark Lord</i> worried about how he looked! He was feared and hated, and he knew <em>exactly</em> what sort of fear and hate he wanted to create. <em>Everyone</em> has to worry about what other people think.’</p>

    <p>The cowled figure shrugged. ‘Perhaps. Remind me sometime to tell you about something called Asch’s Conformity Experiment, you might find it quite amusing. For now I’ll just note that it’s dangerous to worry about what other people think on <i>instinct,</i> because you <i>actually care,</i> not as a matter of cold-blooded calculation. Remember, I was beaten and bullied by older Slytherins for fifteen minutes, and afterwards I stood up and graciously forgave them. Just like the good and virtuous Boy-Who-Lived ought to do. But my cold-blooded calculations, Draco, tell me that I have <i>no use</i> for the dumbest idiots in Slytherin, since <i>I don’t own a pet snake.</i> So I have no reason to care what they think about how I conduct my duel with Hermione Granger.’</p>

    <p>Draco did not clench his fists in frustration. ‘She’s just some mudblood,’ Draco said, keeping his voice calm, rather than shouting. ‘If you don’t like her, push her down the stairs.’</p>

    <p>‘Ravenclaw would know&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Have Pansy Parkinson push her down the stairs! You wouldn’t even have to manipulate her, offer her a Sickle and she’d do it!’</p>

    <p>‘<em>I</em> would know! Hermione beat me in a book-reading contest, she’s getting better grades than me, I have to defeat her with my <em>brain</em> or it doesn’t count!’</p>

    <p><i>‘She’s just a mudblood! Why do you respect her that much?’</i></p>

    <p><i>‘She’s a power among Ravenclaws! Why do you care what some powerless idiot in Slytherin thinks?’</i></p>

    <p><i>‘It’s called politics! And if you can’t play it you can’t have power!’</i></p>

    <p><i>‘Walking on the moon is power! Being a great wizard is power! There are kinds of power that don’t require me to spend the rest of my life pandering to morons!’</i></p>

    <p>Both of them stopped, and, in almost perfect unison, began taking deep breaths to calm themselves.</p>

    <p>‘Sorry,’ Harry Potter said after a few moments, wiping sweat from his forehead. ‘Sorry, Draco. You’ve got a lot of political power and it makes sense for you to keep it. You <em>should</em> be calculating what Slytherin thinks. It’s an important game and I shouldn’t have insulted it. But you can’t ask <em>me</em> to lower the level of my game in Ravenclaw, just so that you don’t look bad by associating with me. Tell Slytherin you’re gritting your teeth while you pretend to be my friend.’</p>

    <p>That was exactly what Draco <em>had</em> told Slytherin, and he still wasn’t sure whether it was true.</p>

    <p>‘Anyway,’ Draco said. ‘Speaking of your image. I’m afraid I’ve got some bad news. Rita Skeeter heard some of the stories about you and she’s been asking questions.’</p>

    <p>Harry Potter raised his eyebrows. ‘Who?’</p>

    <p>‘She writes for the <i>Daily Prophet,</i>’ Draco said. He tried to keep the worry out of his voice. The <i>Daily Prophet</i> was one of Father’s primary tools, he used it like a wizard’s wand. ‘That’s the newspaper people actually pay attention to. Rita Skeeter writes about celebrities, and as she puts it, uses her quill to puncture their over-inflated reputations. If she can’t find any rumours about you, she’ll just make up her own.’</p>

    <p>‘I <em>see,</em>’ said Harry Potter. His green-lit face looked very thoughtful beneath the cowl.</p>

    <p>Draco hesitated before saying what he had to say next. By now someone had certainly reported to Father that he was courting Harry Potter, and Father would also know that Draco hadn’t written home about it, and Father would understand that Draco didn’t think he could actually keep it a secret, which sent a clear message that Draco was practising his own game now but still on Father’s side, since if Draco had been tempted away, he would have been sending false reports.</p>

    <p>It followed that Father had probably anticipated what Draco was about to say next.</p>

    <p>Playing the game with Father for real was a rather unnerving sensation. Even if they were on the same side. It was, on the one hand, exhilarating, but Draco also knew that in the end it would turn out that Father had played the game better. There was no other way it could possibly go.</p>

    <p>‘Harry,’ Draco finally said. ‘This isn’t a suggestion. This isn’t my advice. Just the way it is. My father could almost certainly quash that article. But it would cost you.’</p>

    <p>That Father had been expecting Draco to tell Harry Potter exactly that was not something Draco said out loud. Harry Potter would work it out on his own, or not.</p>

    <p>But instead Harry Potter shook his head, smiling beneath the cowl. ‘I have no intention of trying to quash Rita Skeeter.’</p>

    <p>Draco didn’t even try to keep the incredulity out of his voice. ‘You <em>can’t</em> tell me you don’t care what the <em>newspaper</em> says about you!’</p>

    <p>‘I care less than you might think,’ said Harry Potter. ‘But I have my own ways of dealing with the likes of Skeeter. I don’t need Lucius’s help.’</p>

    <p>A worried look came over Draco’s face before he could stop it. Whatever Harry Potter was about to do next, it would be something Father wasn’t expecting, and Draco was feeling very nervous about where that might lead.</p>

    <p>Draco also realized that his hair was getting sweaty underneath the cowl. He’d never actually worn one of those before, and hadn’t realized that the Death Eaters’ cloaks probably had things like Cooling Charms.</p>

    <p>Harry Potter wiped some sweat from his forehead again, grimaced, took out his wand, pointed it upward, took a deep breath, and said <em>‘Frigideiro!’</em></p>

    <p>Moments later Draco felt the cold draft.</p>

    <p><i>‘Frigideiro! Frigideiro! Frigideiro! Frigideiro! Frigideiro!’</i></p>

    <p>Then Harry Potter lowered the wand, though his hand seemed a bit shaky, and put it back into his robes.</p>

    <p>The whole room seemed perceptibly cooler. Draco could have done that too, but still, not bad.</p>

    <p>‘So,’ Draco said. ‘Science. You’re going to tell me about blood.’</p>

    <p>‘We’re going to <i>find out</i> about blood,’ Harry Potter said. ‘By doing experiments.’</p>

    <p>‘All right,’ Draco said. ‘What sort of experiments?’</p>

    <p>Harry Potter smiled evilly beneath his cowl, and said, ‘You tell me.’</p>

    <hr/>


</div>
</body>
</html>