<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body><div class="calibre1">
    <p><i>‘Aaahhhhh! Finite Incantatem! Aaaahhh!’</i></p>

    <p>Harry’s left hand had been put into a pot of boiling cooking oil and left there. He’d put everything he had into the <i>Finite Incantatem</i> and it still wasn’t working.</p>

    <p>Some hexes required specific counters or you couldn’t undo them, or maybe it was just that Draco was that much stronger.</p>

    <p><em>‘Aaaaahhhh!’</em></p>

    <p>Harry’s hand was really starting to hurt, now, and that was interfering with his attempts to think creatively.</p>

    <p>But a few screams later, Harry realized what he had to do.</p>

    <p>His pouch, unfortunately, was on the wrong side of his body, and it took some twisting to reach into it, especially with his other arm flailing around in a reflex, unstoppable attempt to fling off the source of pain. By the time he managed it his other arm had chucked his wand away again.</p>

    <p>‘Medical <em>ahhhhh</em> kit! Medical kit!’</p>

    <p>On the floor, the green light was too dim to see by.</p>

    <p>Harry couldn’t stand. He couldn’t crawl. He rolled across the floor to where he thought his wand was, and it wasn’t there, and with one hand he managed to raise himself high enough to see his wand, and he rolled there, and got the wand, and rolled back to where the medical kit was opened. There was also a good deal of screaming, and a bit of throwing up.</p>

    <p>It took eight tries before Harry could cast <em>Lumos.</em></p>

    <p>And then, well, the package wasn’t designed to be opened one-handed, because all wizards were idiots, that was why. Harry had to use his teeth and so it took a while before Harry finally managed to wrap the Numbcloth over his left hand.</p>

    <p>When all feeling in his left hand was finally gone, Harry let his mind come apart, and lay motionless on the floor, and cried for a while.</p>

    <p><em>Well,</em> Harry’s mind said silently into itself, when it had recovered enough to think in words again. <i>Was it worth it?</i></p>

    <p>Slowly, Harry’s functional hand reached up to a desk.</p>

    <p>Harry pulled himself to his feet.</p>

    <p>Took a deep breath.</p>

    <p>Exhaled.</p>

    <p>Smiled.</p>

    <p>It wasn’t much of a smile, but it was a smile nonetheless.</p>

    <p class="thought">Thank you, Professor Quirrell, I couldn’t have lost without you.</p>

    <p>He hadn’t redeemed Draco yet, not even close. Contrary to what Draco himself might now believe, Draco was still the child of a Death Eater, through and through. Still a boy who’d grown up thinking ‘rape’ was something the cool older kids did. But it was one heck of a start.</p>

    <p>Harry couldn’t claim it had all gone just as planned. It had all gone just as completely made up on the spot. The <em>plan</em> hadn’t called for this to happen until December or thereabouts, after Harry had taught Draco the techniques not to deny the evidence when he saw it.</p>

    <p>But he’d seen the look of fear on Draco’s face, realized that Draco was <em>already</em> taking an alternative hypothesis seriously, and seized the moment. One case of true curiosity had the same sort of redeeming power in rationality that one case of true love had in films.</p>

    <p>In retrospect, Harry had given himself hours to make the most important discovery in the history of magic, and months to break through the undeveloped mental barriers of an eleven-year-old boy. This could indicate that Harry had some sort of major cognitive deficit with respect to estimating task completion times.</p>

    <p>Was Harry going to Science Hell for what he’d done? Harry wasn’t sure. He’d contrived to keep Draco’s mind on the possibility that magic was fading, made sure Draco would carry out the part of the experiment that would seem at first to point in that direction. He’d waited until after explaining genetics to prompt Draco into realizing about magical creatures (though Harry had thought in terms of ancient artifacts like the Sorting Hat, which no one could duplicate any more, but which continued to function). But Harry hadn’t actually exaggerated any evidence, hadn’t distorted the meaning of any results. When the Interdict of Merlin had invalidated the test that should have been definitive, he’d told Draco up front.</p>

    <p>And then there was the part <em>after</em> that …</p>

    <p>But he hadn’t actually <i>lied</i> to Draco. Draco had believed it, and <i>that would make it true.</i></p>

    <p>The end, admittedly, had not been fun.</p>

    <p>Harry turned, and staggered toward the door.</p>

    <p>Time to test Draco’s locking spell.</p>

    <p>The first step was simply trying to turn the doorknob. Draco could have been bluffing.</p>

    <p>Draco hadn’t been bluffing.</p>

    <p><i>‘Finite Incantatem.’</i> Harry’s voice came out rather hoarse, and he could feel that the spell hadn’t taken.</p>

    <p>So Harry tried it again, and that time it felt true. But another twist at the doorknob showed it hadn’t worked. No surprise there.</p>

    <p>Time to bring out the big guns. Harry drew a deep breath. This spell was one of the most powerful he’d learned so far.</p>

    <p><em>‘Alohomora!’</em></p>

    <p>Harry staggered a little after saying it.</p>

    <p>And the classroom door still didn’t open.</p>

    <p>That shocked Harry. Harry hadn’t been planning to go anywhere near Dumbledore’s forbidden corridor, of course. But a spell to open magical locks had seemed like a useful sort of spell anyway, and so Harry had learned it. Was Dumbledore’s forbidden corridor meant to lure people so stupid that they didn’t notice the security was worse than what Draco Malfoy could put on it?</p>

    <p>Fear was creeping back into Harry’s system. The placard in the medical kit had said the Numbcloth could only safely be used for up to thirty minutes. After that it would come off automatically, and not be reusable for 24 hours. Right now it was 6:51pm. He’d put on the Numbcloth about five minutes ago.</p>

    <p>So Harry took a step back, and considered the door. It was a solid panel of dark oaken wood, interrupted only by the brass metal doorknob.</p>

    <p>Harry didn’t know any explosive or cutting or smashing spells, and Transfiguring explosive would have violated the rule against Transfiguring things to be burned. Acid was a liquid and would have made fumes …</p>

    <p>But that was no obstacle to a <i>creative thinker.</i></p>

    <p>Harry laid his wand against one of the door’s brass hinges, and concentrated on the form of cotton as a pure abstraction apart from any material cotton, and also on the pure material apart from the pattern that made it a brass hinge, and brought the two concepts together, imposing shape on substance. An hour of Transfiguration practise every day for a month had got Harry to the point where he could Transfigure a subject of five cubic centimetres in just under a minute.</p>

    <p>After two minutes the hinge hadn’t changed at all.</p>

    <p>Whoever had designed Draco’s locking spell, they’d thought of that, too. Or the door was part of Hogwarts and the castle was immune.</p>

    <p>A glance showed the walls to be solid stone. So was the floor. So was the ceiling. You couldn’t separately Transfigure a part of something that was a solid whole; Harry would have needed to try Transfiguring the whole wall, which would have taken hours or maybe days of continuous effort, if he could have done it at all, and if the wall wasn’t contiguous with the rest of the whole castle …</p>

    <p>Harry’s Time-Turner wouldn’t open until 9pm. After that he could go back to 6pm, before the door was locked.</p>

    <p>How long would the torture spell last?</p>

    <p>Harry swallowed hard. Tears were coming into his eyes again.</p>

    <p>His brilliantly creative mind had just offered the ingenious suggestion that Harry could cut his hand off using the hacksaw in the tool-set stored in his pouch, which would hurt, obviously, but might hurt a lot less than Draco’s pain spell, since the nerves would be gone; and he had tourniquets in the healer’s kit.</p>

    <p>And that was obviously a hideously stupid idea that Harry would regret the rest of his entire life.</p>

    <p>But Harry didn’t know if he could hold out for two hours under torture.</p>

    <p>He wanted <em>out</em> of this classroom, he wanted out of this classroom <em>now,</em> he didn’t want to wait in here screaming for two hours until he could use the Time-Turner, he needed to <i>get out</i> and find someone to get the torture spell off his hand …</p>

    <p><i>Think!</i> Harry screamed at his brain. <i>Think! Think!</i></p>

    <hr/>

    <p>The Slytherin dorm was mostly empty. People were at dinner. For some reason Draco himself wasn’t feeling very hungry.</p>

    <p>Draco closed the door to his private room, locked it, Charmed it shut, Quieted it, sat down on his bed, and started to cry.</p>

    <p>It wasn’t fair.</p>

    <p>It wasn’t fair.</p>

    <p>It was the first time Draco had ever really <em>lost</em>, Father had warned him that losing for real would hurt the first time it happened, but he’d lost <i>so much</i>, it wasn’t fair, it wasn’t fair for him to lose <em>everything</em> the very first time he lost.</p>

    <p>Somewhere in the dungeons, a boy Draco had actually liked was screaming in pain. Draco had never hurt anyone he’d liked before. Punishing people who deserved it was supposed to be fun, but this just felt sick inside. Father hadn’t warned him about that, and Draco wondered if it was a hard lesson everyone had to learn when they grew up, or if Draco was just weak.</p>

    <p>Draco wished it were Pansy screaming. That would have felt better.</p>

    <p>And the worst part was knowing that it might have been a mistake to hurt Harry Potter.</p>

    <p>Who else was there for Draco now? Dumbledore? After what he’d done? Draco would sooner have been burned alive.</p>

    <p>Draco would have to go back to Harry Potter because there was nowhere else for him to go. And if Harry Potter said he didn’t want him, then Draco would be nothing, just a pathetic little boy who could never be a Death Eater, never join Dumbledore’s faction, never learn science.</p>

    <p>The trap had been perfectly set, perfectly executed. Father had warned Draco over and over that what you sacrificed to Dark rituals couldn’t be regained. But Father hadn’t known that the accursed Muggles had invented rituals that didn’t need wands, rituals you could be tricked into doing without knowing it, and that was only one of the terrible secrets which scientists knew and which Harry Potter had brought with him.</p>

    <p>Draco started crying harder, then.</p>

    <p>He didn’t want this, he <i>didn’t want this</i> but there was no turning back. It was too late. He was already a scientist.</p>

    <p>Draco knew he should go back and free Harry Potter and apologize. It would have been the smart thing to do.</p>

    <p>Instead Draco stayed in his bed and sobbed.</p>

    <p>He’d already hurt Harry Potter. It might be the only time Draco ever got to hurt him, and he would have to hold to that one memory for the rest of his life.</p>

    <p>Let him keep screaming.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Harry dropped the remnants of his hacksaw to the ground. The brass hinges had proved impervious, not even scratched, and Harry was beginning to suspect that even the desperation act of trying to Transfigure acid or explosives would have failed to open this door. On the plus side, the attempt had destroyed the hacksaw.</p>

    <p>His watch said it was 7:02pm, with less than fifteen minutes left, and Harry tried to remember if there were any other sharp things in his pouch that needed destroying, and felt another fit of tears welling up. If only, when his Time-Turner opened, he could go back and <em>prevent</em> –</p>

    <p>And that was when Harry realized he was being <em>silly</em>.</p>

    <p>It wasn’t the first time he’d been locked in a room.</p>

    <p>Professor McGonagall had already told him the correct way to do this.</p>

    <p>… she’d also told him not to use the Time-Turner for this sort of thing.</p>

    <p>Would Professor McGonagall realize that this occasion really <em>did</em> warrant a special exception? Or just take away the Time-Turner entirely?</p>

    <p>Harry gathered up all his things, all the evidence, into his pouch. A <em>Scourgify</em> took care of the vomit on the floor, though not the sweat that had soaked his robes. He left the overturned desks overturned, it wasn’t important enough to be worth doing with one hand.</p>

    <p>When he was done, Harry glanced down at his watch. 7:04pm.</p>

    <p>And then Harry waited. Seconds passed, feeling like years.</p>

    <p>At 7:07pm, the door opened.</p>

    <p>Professor Flitwick’s puff-bearded face looked rather concerned. ‘Are you all right, Harry?’ said the squeaky voice of Ravenclaw’s Head of House. ‘I got a note saying you’d been locked in here&#160;–’</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>