<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
<div class="calibre1">
    <p>Harry stayed very quiet.</p>

    <p>The Potions-making had come to a temporary pause, a space where no ingredients were added while the cauldron simmered for a time. ‘I spent most of my time looking at the stars,’ Professor Quirrell said, his voice quieter now. The Defence Professor had turned from the potion, staring at the white-illuminated walls of the room. ‘My remaining hope was the horcruxes I had hidden in the hopeless idiocy of my youth. Imbuing them into ancient lockets, instead of anonymous pebbles; guarding them beneath wells of poison in the centre of a lake of Inferi, instead of portkeying them into the sea. If someone found one of those, and penetrated their ridiculous protections … but that seemed like a distant hope. I was not sure I would ever be embodied again. Yet at least I was immortal. The worst of all fates had been averted, my great creation had done that much. I had little left to hope for, and little left to fear. I decided that I would not go insane, since there seemed to be no advantage in it. Instead, I gazed out at the stars and thought, as the Sun slowly diminished behind me. I reflected on the errors of my past life; they were many, in that hindsight. In my imagination I constructed powerful new rituals I might attempt, if I was free to use my magic once more, and yet confident of my immortality. I contemplated ancient riddles at greater length than before, for all that I had once thought myself patient. I knew that if I won free, I would be more powerful by far than in my previous life; but I mostly did not expect that to happen.’ Professor Quirrell turned back to the potion. ‘Nine years and four months after that night, a wandering adventurer named Quirinus Quirrell won past the protections guarding one of my earliest horcruxes. The rest you know. And now, boy, you may say what we both know you are thinking.’</p>

    <p>‘Um,’ Harry said. ‘It doesn’t seem like a very smart thing to say&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Indeed, Mr&#160;Potter. It is not a clever thing to say to me. Not even a little. Not in the slightest. But I <i>know you’re thinking it,</i> and you will <i>go on thinking it</i> and I will <i>go on knowing that</i> until you say it. So speak.’</p>

    <p>‘So. Um. I realise that this is something that is more obvious in hindsight than in foresight, and I’m certainly not suggesting that you try to correct the error now, but if you are a Dark Lord and you happen to hear about a child who has been prophesied to defeat you, there is a certain spell which is unblockable, unstoppable, and works every single time on anything with a brain&#160;–’</p>

    <p><i>‘Yes thank you Mr&#160;Potter that thought occurred to me several times over the next nine years.’</i> Professor Quirrell picked up another bellflower and began crumbling it in his bare fist. ‘I made that principle the centrepiece of my Battle Magic curriculum after I learned its centrality the hard way. It was <em>not</em> the first Rule on the younger Tom Riddle’s list. It is only by harsh experience that we learn which principles take priority over which other principles; as mere words they all sound equally persuasive. In retrospect it would have been better if I had sent Bellatrix to the Potters’ home in my place; but I had a Rule telling me that for such matters I must go myself and not try sending a trusted lieutenant. <em>Yes,</em> I considered the Killing Curse; but I wondered if casting the Killing Curse at an infant would somehow cause the curse to bounce off and hit me, thus fulfilling the prophecy. How was I to know?’</p>

    <p>‘So use an axe, it’s hard to get a prophecy-fulfilling spell backfire out of an axe,’ Harry said and then shut up.</p>

    <p>‘I decided the safest path was to try to fulfil the prophecy on my own terms,’ Professor Quirrell said. ‘Needless to say, the next time I hear a prophecy I do not like, I will tear it apart at <i>every possible point of intervention</i>, rather than trying to play along.’ Professor Quirrell was crushing a rose as though to squeeze the juice out of it, still using his bare fist. ‘And now everyone thinks the Boy-Who-Lived is somehow immune to the Killing Curse, even though Killing Curses do not ruin houses or leave burnt bodies behind them, <i>because it has not occurred to them that Lord Voldemort would ever use any other spell.</i>’</p>

    <p>Harry again stayed quiet. It had occurred to Harry that there was another obvious way that Lord Voldemort could have avoided his mistake. Something that might perhaps be easier to see given a Muggle upbringing, instead of the wizarding way of looking at things.</p>

    <p>Harry had not yet decided whether to tell Professor Quirrell about his thought; there were both pros and cons to pointing out that particular error.</p>

    <p>After a time Professor Quirrell picked up the next Potions ingredient, a strand of what looked like unicorn hair. ‘I tell you this as a caution,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘Do not expect me to be delayed another nine years, if you somehow destroy this body of mine. I set horcruxes in better places at once, and now even that is unnecessary. Thanks to you, I learned where to find the Resurrection Stone. The Resurrection Stone does not bring back the dead, of course; but it holds a more ancient magic than my own for projecting the seeming of a spirit. And since I am one who has defeated death, Cadmus’s Hallow acknowledged me its master, and answered all my will. I have now incorporated it into my great creation.’ Professor Quirrell smiled slightly. ‘I had many years earlier considered making that device a horcrux, but decided against it at the time, since I realized that the ring had magic of unknown nature … ah, such ironies does life play upon us. But I digress. <em>You</em>, boy, you brought that about, you freed my spirit to fly where it pleases and seduce the most opportune victim, by being too casual with your secrets. It is a catastrophe for any who oppose me, and you wrought it with one finger drawing wetness on a tea-saucer. This world will be a safer place for all, if you learn the rectitude that wizardborns absorb in childhood. <i class="parsel">And all thiss that I have jusst said iss the truth.</i>’</p>

    <p>Harry closed his eyes, and his own hand massaged his forehead; if he had seen it from the outside, it would have looked the mirror of Professor Quirrell in deep thought.</p>

    <p>The problem of defeating Professor Quirrell was looking increasingly difficult, even by the standards of the sort of impossible problems that Harry had solved already. If communicating that difficulty was what Professor Quirrell was trying to do, he was <em>succeeding.</em> Harry was starting to seriously consider the possibility that it might be better to offer to rule Britain as Voldemort’s <em>non-homicidal</em> delegate, if Professor Quirrell himself would just agree to <i>stop killing people all the time.</i> Even <em>mostly</em>.</p>

    <p>But that wasn’t likely to happen.</p>

    <p>Harry stared at his hands, from where he had sat down upon the floor, feeling sadness shading over into despair. The Lord Voldemort who’d given Harry his dark side had spent <i>that long</i> thinking things over and reflecting on his own thought processes … and had emerged as the calm, clear-headed, and still homicidal Professor Quirrell.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell added a pinch of golden hair to the <i>potion of effulgence,</i> and that reminded Harry that time was continuing to move; the locks of bright hair were rarer than the bellflowers.</p>

    <p>‘I ask my second question,’ Harry said. ‘Tell me about the Philosopher’s Stone. Does it do anything besides making Transfigurations permanent? Is it possible to make more Stones, and why is that problem hard?’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell was bent over the potion, and Harry could not see his face. ‘Very well, I shall tell you the Stone’s story as I have inferred it. The one and only power of the Stone is the imposition of permanency, to render a temporary form into a true and lasting substance – a power absolutely beyond ordinary spells. Conjurations such as the castle Hogwarts are maintained by a constant well of magic. Even Metamorphmagi cannot manifest golden fingernails and then trim them for sale. It is theorized that the Metamorphmagus curse merely rearranges the substance of their flesh, like a Muggle smith manipulates iron with hammer and tongs; and their body contains no gold. If Merlin himself could create gold from thin air, history does not record it. So the Stone, we can guess even before research, must be a very old thing indeed. In contrast, Nicholas Flamel has been known to the world for a mere six centuries. Tell me the obvious next question to ask, boy, if you wanted to trace the Stone’s history.’</p>

    <p>‘Um,’ Harry said. He rubbed his forehead, concentrating. If the Stone was old, but the world had only known Nicholas Flamel for six centuries … ‘Was there some other very long-lived wizard who disappeared at around the same time Nicholas Flamel showed up?’</p>

    <p>‘Close,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘You recall that six centuries ago there was a Dark Lady called undying, the sorceress Baba Yaga? She was said to be able to heal any wound in herself, to change shape into any form she pleased … she held the Stone of Permanency, obviously. And then one year Baba Yaga agreed to teach Battle Magic at Hogwarts, under an old and respected truce.’ Professor Quirrell looked … <em>angry,</em> a look such as Harry had rarely seen on him. ‘But she was not trusted, and so there was invoked a curse. Some curses are easier to cast when they bind yourself and others alike; Slytherin’s Parselmouth curse is an example of such. In this case, Baba Yaga’s signature, and signatures from every student and teacher of Hogwarts, were placed within an ancient device known as the Goblet of Fire. Baba Yaga swore not to shed a drop of students’ blood, nor take from the students anything that was theirs. In return, the students swore not to shed a drop of Baba Yaga’s blood, nor take from her anything that was hers. So they all signed, with the Goblet of Fire to witness it and punish the transgressor.’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell picked up a new ingredient, a loose thread of gold wrapped around a pinch of foul-looking substance. ‘Entering her sixth year at Hogwarts, then, was a witch named Perenelle. And although Perenelle was new-come into the beauty of her youth, her heart was already blacker than Baba Yaga’s own&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘<em>You’re</em> calling her evil?’ Harry said, then realized he had just committed the fallacy of <i>ad hominem tu quoque.</i></p>

    <p>‘Hush, boy, I am telling the story. Where was I? Ah, yes, Perenelle, the beautiful and covetous. Perenelle seduced the Dark Lady over the months, with gentle touches and flirtations and the shy pretence of innocence. The Dark Lady’s heart was captured, and they became lovers. And then one night Perenelle whispered how she had heard of Baba Yaga’s shape-changing power and how this thought had inflamed her desires; thus Perenelle swayed Baba Yaga to come to her with the Stone in hand, to assume many guises in a single night, for their pleasures. Among other forms Perenelle bid Baba Yaga take the form of a man; and they lay together in the fashion of a man and a woman. But Perenelle had been a virgin until that night. And since they were all rather old-fashioned in those days, the Goblet of Fire accounted that as the shedding of Perenelle’s blood, and the taking of what was hers; thus Baba Yaga was tricked into being forsworn, and the Goblet rendered her defenceless. Then Perenelle killed the unsuspecting Baba Yaga as she slept in Perenelle’s bed, killed the Dark Lady who had loved her and come peacefully to Hogwarts under truce; and that was the end of the pact by which Dark Wizards and Witches taught Battle Magic at Hogwarts. For the next few centuries the Goblet of Fire was used to oversee pointless inter-school tournaments, and then it resided in a disused chamber at Beauxbatons, until I finally stole it.’ Professor Quirrell dropped a pale beige-pink twig into the cauldron, and its colour changed to white just as it touched the surface. ‘But I digress. Perenelle took the Stone from Baba Yaga, and assumed the guise and name of Nicholas Flamel. She also kept her identity as Perenelle, calling herself Flamel’s wife. The two have appeared together in public, but that might be done by any number of obvious methods.’</p>

    <p>‘And the Stone’s manufacture?’ said Harry, his brain working to process all this. ‘I saw an alchemical recipe for it, in a book&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Another lie. Perenelle was making it appear as though “Nicholas Flamel” had earned the right to live forever by completing a great magic that any could attempt. And she was giving others a false path to pursue, instead of seeking the one true Stone as Perenelle had sought Baba Yaga’s.’ Professor Quirrell looked rather sour. ‘It should come as no surprise that I spent years trying to master that false recipe. Next you will ask why I did not kidnap, torture, and kill Perenelle after I learned the truth.’</p>

    <p>This had not in fact been a question that had come into Harry’s mind.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell continued to speak. ‘The answer is that Perenelle had foreseen and forestalled the ambitions of Dark Wizards like myself. “Nicholas Flamel” publicly took Unbreakable Vows not to be coerced by any means into relinquishing his Stone – to guard immortality from the covetous, he claimed, as if that were a public service. I was afraid the Stone would be lost forever, if Perenelle died without saying where it was hidden, and her Vow prevented attempts at torture. Further, I had hopes of gaining Perenelle’s knowledge, if I could find the right strategy to extract it from her. Though Perenelle began with little lore of her own, she has held hostage the lives of wizards greater than herself, holding out dribs and drabs of healing in exchange for secrets, and small reversals of age in exchange for power. Perenelle does not condescend to bestow any real youth upon others – but if you hear of a wizard who lived, grey-bearded, to the age of two hundred and fifty, you may be sure that her hand was in play. By my own generation, the centuries had given Perenelle enough of an advantage that she could raise up Albus Dumbledore as a counterweight to the Dark Lord Grindelwald. When I appeared as Lord Voldemort, Perenelle raised up Dumbledore yet further, parcelling out another drop of her hoarded lore whenever Lord Voldemort seemed to gain an advantage. I felt like I ought to be able to figure out something clever to do with that situation, but I never did. I did not attack her directly, for I was not sure of my great creation; it was not impossible that I would some day need to go begging to her for a dollop of reversed age.’ Professor Quirrell dropped two bellflowers at once into the potion, and they seemed to merge as they touched the bubbling liquid. ‘But now I am sure of my creation, and so I have decided that the time has come to take the Stone by force.’</p>

    <p>Harry hesitated. ‘I would like to hear you answer in Parseltongue, was all of that true?’</p>

    <p><i class="parsel">‘None of it i<span class="ps">s</span> known to me to be fal<span class="ps">s</span>e,’</i> said Professor Quirrell. ‘Telling a tale implies filling in certain gaps; I was not present to observe when Perenelle seduced Baba Yaga. <i class="parsel">The ba<span class="ps">s</span>ic<span class="ps">s</span> <span class="ps">s</span>hould be mo<span class="ps">s</span>tly correct, I think.</i>’</p>

    <p>Harry had noticed a trace of confusion. ‘Then I don’t understand why the Stone is here in Hogwarts. Wouldn’t the best defence just be hiding it under an anonymous rock in Greenland?’</p>

    <p>‘Perhaps she respected my abilities as a particularly good finder,’ said the Defence Professor. He appeared focused on his cauldron as he dipped a bellflower into a jar of liquid labelled with the Potions symbol for rainwater.</p>

    <p class="thought">We are very much alike, the Defence Professor and I, in some ways if not others. If I imagine what I’d do, given his problem …</p>

    <p>‘Did you bluff everyone into <em>believing</em> you had some way of finding the Stone?’ Harry said aloud. ‘So that Perenelle would put it inside Hogwarts, where Dumbledore could guard it?’</p>

    <p>The Defence Professor sighed, not looking up from the cauldron. ‘I suppose that stratagem would be futile to conceal from you. Yes, after I possessed Quirrell and returned, I implemented a strategy I had conceived while gazing at the stars. First I made sure to be accepted as Defence Professor at Hogwarts, for it would not do to have suspicions raised while I was still seeking employment. When that was done, I arranged for one of Perenelle’s curse-breaking expeditions to discover a falsified but credible inscription describing how the Crown of the Serpent could be used to seek out the Stone wherever it was hidden. Immediately after, before Perenelle could buy up the Crown, it was stolen; furthermore I left clear indications that the thief had possessed the power to speak to snakes. So Perenelle thought that I could infallibly find the Stone’s location, and that it needed a guardian powerful enough to defeat me. That is how the Stone came to be held in Hogwarts, in Dumbledore’s domain. Just as I intended, naturally, since I had already gained access to Hogwarts for the year. I think that is all of this that concerns you, if I speak not of future plans.’</p>

    <p>Harry frowned. Professor Quirrell should not have told him that. Unless the strategy had somehow become irrelevant to any future deception of Perenelle … ? Or unless, by answering so quickly, the Defence Professor had hoped to have people conclude that it was a double-bluff, and that the Crown of the Serpent really could find the Stone …</p>

    <p>Harry decided not to question this answer in Parseltongue.</p>

    <p>Another lock of bright hair, seeming white but not with age, was gently dribbled into the cauldron, again reminding Harry that they were on a time limit. Harry considered, but he couldn’t see any further path to pursue this line of questioning; there was no known way to manufacture more Philosopher’s Stones and no obvious way to invent such, which was probably the <em>objectively</em> worst news Harry had heard all day.</p>

    <p>Harry took a deep breath. ‘I ask my third question,’ Harry said. ‘What’s the truth behind this entire school year? All the plots you ran, all the plots you know about.’</p>

    <p>‘Hm,’ said Professor Quirrell, dropping another bellflower into the potion, accompanied by a plant-shape like a tiny cross. ‘Let me see … the most shocking twist is that the Defence Professor turns out to be secretly Voldemort.’</p>

    <p>‘Well, obviously,’ Harry said, with a good deal of self-directed bitterness.</p>

    <p>‘Then where do you wish me to start?’</p>

    <p>‘Why did you kill Hermione?’ The question just slipped out.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell’s pale eyes glanced up from the potion, watched him intently. ‘One would think that should be evident – but I suppose I cannot blame you for distrusting what seems evident. To understand the object of an obscure plot, observe its consequences and ask who might have intended them. I killed Miss&#160;Granger to improve your position relative to that of Lucius Malfoy, since my plans did not call for him to have so much leverage over you. I admit I am impressed by how far you managed to parlay that opening.’</p>

    <p>Harry unclenched his teeth, which took an effort. ‘That’s after your failed attempt to <em>frame</em> Hermione for the attempted murder of Draco and <i>send her to Azkaban</i> because of <em>why?</em> Because you didn’t like the influence she was having on me?’</p>

    <p>‘Don’t be ridiculous,’ Professor Quirrell said. ‘If I had only wished to remove Miss&#160;Granger, I would not have brought the Malfoys into it. I observed your game with Draco Malfoy and found it amusing, but I knew it could not continue for very long before Lucius learned and intervened; and then your folly would have brought you great trouble, for Lucius would not take it lightly. Had you just been able to <em>lose</em> during the Wizengamot trial, <em>lose</em> as I had taught you, then in only two more weeks, ironclad evidence would have shown that Lucius Malfoy, after discovering his son’s seeming perfidy, had Imperiused Professor Sprout into using the Blood-Cooling Charm on Mr&#160;Malfoy and casting the False Memory Charm on Miss&#160;Granger. Lucius would have been swept off the political gameboard, sent to exile if not Azkaban; Draco Malfoy would have inherited the wealth of House Malfoy, and your influence over him would have been unchallenged. Instead I had to abort that plot in mid-course. You managed to completely disrupt the real plan in the course of sacrificing double your entire fortune, by giving Lucius Malfoy the perfect opportunity to prove his true concern for his son. You have an incredible anti-talent for meddling, I must say.’</p>

    <p>‘And you also thought,’ Harry said, even with his dark side’s patterns he had to work to keep his voice level and cool, ‘that two weeks in Azkaban would improve Miss&#160;Granger’s disposition, and get her to stop being a bad influence on me. So you somehow arranged for there to be newspaper stories calling for her to be sent to Azkaban, rather than some other penalty.’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell’s lips drew up in a thin smile. ‘Good catch, boy. Yes, I thought she might serve as your Bellatrix. That particular outcome would also have provided you with a constant reminder of how much respect was due the law, and helped you develop appropriate attitudes toward the Ministry.’</p>

    <p>‘Your plot was stupidly complicated and had no chance of working.’ Harry knew he ought to be more tactful, that he was engaging in more of what Professor Quirrell called <em>folly,</em> but in that instant he could not bring himself to care.</p>

    <p>‘It was less complicated than Dumbledore’s plot to have the three armies tie in the Christmas Battle, and not much more complicated than my own plot to make you think Dumbledore had blackmailed Mr&#160;Zabini. The insight you are missing, Mr&#160;Potter, is that these were not plots that <em>needed</em> to succeed.’ Professor Quirrell continued to casually stir the potion, smiling. ‘There are plots that <em>must</em> succeed, where you keep the core idea as simple as possible and take every precaution. There are also plots where it is acceptable to fail, and with those you can indulge yourself, or test the limits of your ability to handle complications. It was not as if something going wrong with any of those plots would have killed me.’ Professor Quirrell was no longer smiling. ‘Our journey into Azkaban was of the first type, and I was less amused by your antics there.’</p>

    <p>‘What <em>exactly</em> did you do to Hermione?’ Some part of Harry wondered at the evenness of his voice.</p>

    <p>‘Obliviations and False Memory Charms. I could not trust anything else to go undetected by the Hogwarts wards and the scrutiny I knew her mind would undergo.’ A flicker of frustration crossed Professor Quirrell’s face. ‘Part of what you rightly call complication is because the first version of my plot did not go as planned, and I had to modify it. I came to Miss&#160;Granger in the hallways wearing the appearance of Professor Sprout, to offer her a conspiracy. My first attempt at suasion failed. I Obliviated her and tried again with a new presentation. The second bait failed. The third bait failed. The <i>tenth</i> bait failed. I was so frustrated that I began going through my entire library of guises, including those more appropriate to Mr&#160;Zabini. <i>Still</i> nothing worked. The child <i>would not</i> violate her childish code.’</p>

    <p>‘<em>You</em> do not get to call her childish, Professor.’ Harry’s voice sounded strange in his own ears. ‘Her code <em>worked.</em> It prevented you from tricking her. The whole point of having deontological ethical injunctions is that arguments for violating them are often much less trustworthy than they look. You don’t get to criticize her rules when they worked exactly as intended.’ After they resurrected Hermione, Harry would tell her that Lord Voldemort himself hadn’t been able to tempt her into doing wrong, and that was why he’d killed her.</p>

    <p>‘Fair enough, I suppose,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘There is a saying that even a stopped clock is right twice a day, and I do not think Miss&#160;Granger was actually being reasonable. Still, Rule Ten: one must not rant about the opposition’s unworthiness after they have foiled you. Regardless. After two full hours of failed attempts, I realized that I was being over-stubborn, and that I did not need Miss&#160;Granger to carry out the exact part I had planned for her. I gave up on my original intent, and instead imbued Miss&#160;Granger with False Memories of watching Mr&#160;Malfoy plotting against her under circumstances that implied she should not tell you or the authorities. In the end it was Mr&#160;Malfoy who gave me the opening I needed, entirely by luck.’ Professor Quirrell dropped a bellflower and a scrap of parchment into the cauldron.</p>

    <p>‘Why did the wards show the Defence Professor as having killed Hermione?’</p>

    <p>‘I wore the mountain troll as a false tooth while Dumbledore was identifying me to the Hogwarts wards as the Defence Professor.’ A slight smile. ‘Other living weapons cannot be Transfigured; they will not survive the disenchantment for the requisite six hours to avoid being traced by Time-Turner. The fact that a mountain troll was used as a weapon of assassination was a clear sign that the assassin had needed a proxy weapon that could be Transfigured safely. Combined with the evidence of the wards, and Dumbledore’s own knowledge of how he had identified me to Hogwarts, you could have deduced who was responsible – in theory. However, experience has taught me that such puzzles are far harder to solve when you do not already know the solution, and I considered it a small risk. Ah, that reminds me, I have a question of my own.’ The Defence Professor was now giving Harry an intent look. ‘What gave me away at the last, in the corridor outside these chambers?’</p>

    <p>Harry put aside other emotions to weigh up the cost and benefit of answering honestly, came to the conclusion that the Defence Professor was giving away far more information than he was getting (<em>why?</em>) and that it was best not to give the appearance of reticence. ‘The main thing,’ Harry said, ‘was that it was too improbable that everyone had arrived in Dumbledore’s corridor at the same time. I tried running with the hypothesis that everyone who arrived had to be coordinated, including you.’</p>

    <p>‘But I had said that I was following Snape,’ the Defence Professor said. ‘Was that not plausible?’</p>

    <p>‘It was, but …’ Harry said. ‘Um. The laws governing what constitutes a good explanation don’t talk about plausible excuses you hear afterwards. They talk about the probabilities we assign in advance. That’s why science makes people do advance predictions, instead of trusting explanations people come up with afterwards. And I wouldn’t have predicted in advance for you to follow Snape and show up like that. Even if I’d known in advance that you could put a trace on Snape’s wand, I wouldn’t have <em>expected</em> you to do it and follow him just then. Since your explanation didn’t make me feel like I would have predicted the outcome in advance, it remained an improbability. I started to wonder if Sprout’s mastermind might have arranged for you to show up, too. And then I realised the note to myself hadn’t really come from future-me, and that gave it away completely.’</p>

    <p>‘Ah,’ said the Defence Professor, and sighed. ‘Well, I think it is all working out for the best. You did understand only too late; and there would have been inconveniences as well as benefits to you remaining unaware.’</p>

    <p>‘What on <em>Earth</em> were you trying to do? The reason I was trying so hard to figure it out was that the whole thing was just so weird.’</p>

    <p>‘That should have pointed at Dumbledore, not myself,’ said Professor Quirrell, and frowned. ‘The fact is that Miss&#160;Greengrass was not supposed to arrive in that corridor for several hours … though I suppose, since I did have Mr&#160;Malfoy give her the clue I assigned her, it is not too surprising they banded together. Had Mr&#160;Nott arrived seemingly alone, events would have played out less farcically. But I consider myself a specialist in battlefield control magics, and I was able to ensure that the fight went as I wished. I suppose it did end up looking a bit ridiculous.’ The Defence Professor dropped a peach slice and a bellflower into the cauldron. ‘But let us defer our discussion of the Mirror until we reach it. Did you have any more questions concerning Miss&#160;Granger’s regrettable and hopefully temporary demise?’</p>

    <p>‘Yes,’ Harry said in an even voice. ‘What did you do to the Weasley twins? Dumbledore thought – I mean, the school saw the Headmaster go to the Weasley twins after Hermione was arrested. Dumbledore thought you, as Voldemort, had wondered why Dumbledore had done so, and that you’d checked on the Weasley twins, found and took their map, and Obliviated them afterwards?’</p>

    <p>‘Dumbledore was quite correct,’ Professor Quirrell said, shaking his head as though in wonderment. ‘He was also an utter fool to leave the Hogwarts Map in the possession of those two idiots. I had an unpleasant shock after I recovered the Map; it showed my name and yours correctly! The Weasley idiots had thought it a mere malfunction, especially after you received your Cloak and your Time-Turner. If Dumbledore had kept the Map himself – if the Weasleys had ever spoken of it to Dumbledore – but they did not, thankfully.’</p>

    <p class="thought">Showed my name and yours correctly –</p>

    <p>‘I would like to see that,’ Harry said.</p>

    <p>Without taking his eyes from the cauldron, Professor Quirrell drew a folded parchment from within his robes, hissed at it <i class="parsel">‘<span class="ps">S</span>how our <span class="ps">s</span>urrounding<span class="ps">s</span>’</i>, and tossed the folded parchment toward Harry. It cut unerringly through the air, an increase of doom breathing on Harry’s senses as it moved toward him, and then it fluttered gently to Harry’s feet.</p>

    <p>Harry picked up the parchment and unfolded it.</p>

    <p>At first the parchment seemed blank. Then, as though an unseen pen were moving across it, the outline of walls and doors appeared, all drawn in handwritten lines. The writing outlined a series of chambers, most of them shown as empty; the last chamber in the series had a confused scribble in its centre, as though the Map were trying to indicate its own bewilderment; and the second-to-last chamber showed two names within, written in positions within the chamber corresponding to where Harry was sitting and Professor Quirrell was standing.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tom M. Riddle.</p>

    <p class="thought">Tom M. Riddle.</p>

    <p>Harry gazed at the parchment, an unpleasant chill coming over him. It was one thing to hear Lord Voldemort claim that your name was Tom Riddle; it was another thing to find that Hogwarts’s magic agreed. <i class="parsel">‘Did you tamper with thi<span class="ps">s</span> map to achieve thi<span class="ps">s</span> re<span class="ps">s</span>ult, or did it appear before you by <span class="ps">s</span>urpri<span class="ps">s</span>e?’</i></p>

    <p><i class="parsel">‘Wa<span class="ps">s</span> <span class="ps">s</span>urpri<span class="ps">s</span>e,’</i> replied Professor Quirrell, with an overtone of hissing laughter. <i class="parsel">‘No trick<span class="ps">s</span>.’</i></p>

    <p>Harry folded the Map and threw it back in Professor Quirrell’s direction; some force caught it in mid-air before it reached the floor, and drew the Map back into Professor Quirrell’s robes.</p>

    <p>The Defence Professor spoke. ‘I should also like to volunteer that Snape was guiding Miss&#160;Granger and her underlings toward bullies, and sometimes intervening to protect them.’</p>

    <p>‘I knew that.’</p>

    <p>‘Interesting,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘Did Dumbledore also learn of this? Answer in Parseltongue.’</p>

    <p><i class="parsel">‘Not <span class="ps">s</span>o far a<span class="ps">s</span> I know,’</i> hissed Harry.</p>

    <p>‘Fascinating,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘You may be interested to know this as well: <i class="parsel">Potion<span class="ps">s</span>-maker had to work in <span class="ps">s</span>ecret because hi<span class="ps">s</span> plot oppo<span class="ps">s</span>ed <span class="ps">s</span>choolma<span class="ps">s</span>ter’s plot.</i>’</p>

    <p>Harry thought about this, while Professor Quirrell blew on the potion as though to cool it, though the fire still burned under the cauldron; then added a pinch of dirt and a drop of water and a bellflower. ‘Please explain,’ Harry said.</p>

    <p>‘Has it never occurred to you to wonder why Dumbledore chose Severus Snape as the Head of House Slytherin? To say that it was a cover for his work as Dumbledore’s spy explains nothing. Snape could have been a Potions Master only, and not the Head of Slytherin at all. Snape could have been made Keeper of Grounds and Keys, if he needed to stay within Hogwarts! Why the <i>Head of House Slytherin?</i> Surely it occurred to you that this could not have good effects upon the Slytherins, according to Dumbledore’s moral pretences?’</p>

    <p>The thought hadn’t occurred to Harry in <em>exactly</em> those terms, no … ‘I wondered something like it. I didn’t put the dilemma in that precise form.’</p>

    <p>‘And now that you have, is the solution obvious?’</p>

    <p>‘No,’ Harry said.</p>

    <p>‘Disappointing. You have not learned enough cynicism, you have not grasped the <em>flexibility</em> of what moralists call morality. To fathom a plot, look at the consequences and ask if they might be intended. Dumbledore was deliberately sabotaging Slytherin House – don’t give me that look, boy, <i class="parsel">I am sspeaking truth.</i> During the last Wizarding War, Slytherins filled out my ranks of underlings, and other Slytherins in the Wizengamot supported me. Look at it from Dumbledore’s perspective, and remember that he has no native understanding of Slytherin’s ways. Think of Dumbledore becoming increasingly sad over this Hogwarts House that seems the source of so much ill-doing. And then behold, Dumbledore puts in as Head of Slytherin the person of Snape. Snape! Severus Snape! A man who would teach his House neither cunning nor ambition, a man who would impose lax discipline and make its children weak! A man who would offend students of other Houses, who would ruin Slytherin’s name among them! A man whose surname was unknown in magical Britain and certainly not noble, who went about half in rags! Do you think Dumbledore ignorant of the consequence? When Dumbledore was the one who brought it about, and had motive to bring it about? I expect Dumbledore told himself that more lives would be saved during the next Wizarding War if Voldemort’s future Death Eaters were weakened.’ Professor Quirrell dropped into the cauldron a chip of ice, slowly melting as it touched the surface froth. ‘Continue the process long enough, and no child would want to go to Slytherin. The House would be retired, and if the Hat kept calling the name, it would become a mark of ignominy among children who would afterwards be distributed among the other three Houses. From that day on, Hogwarts would have three upstanding Houses of courage and scholarship and industry, with no House of Bad Children added to the mix; just as if the three Founders of Hogwarts had been wise enough in the beginning to refuse Salazar Slytherin their company. That, I expect, was Dumbledore’s intended end-game; a short-term sacrifice for the greater good.’ Professor Quirrell smiled sardonically. ‘And Lucius let it all happen without protest or even, I expect, <em>noticing</em> that anything was going awry. I fear that in my absence my former servants have been quite outmatched in this battle of wits.’</p>

    <p>Harry was having a bit of trouble taking this in, but decided, after some thought, that now was not the time to try to work it out. Whether Lord Voldemort believed it was not decisive; Harry would have to evaluate this accusation on his own.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell’s mention of his <em>servants</em> had reminded Harry of something else that he was … obliged, Harry supposed, to ask. The bad news was predictable. On any other day it would have been horrible. Today it would just wash out in the flood. ‘Bellatrix Black,’ Harry said. ‘What was the truth about her?’</p>

    <p>‘She was broken inside before I ever met her,’ Professor Quirrell said. He picked up what looked like a white-grey rubber band and held it over the cauldron; as the rubber was held within the steam, it turned black. ‘Using Legilimency on her was a mistake. But that glimpse showed me how easy it would be to make her fall in love with me, so I did. Ever after she was the most faithful of all my servants, the only one I could almost trust. I had no intention of giving her what she wanted from me; so I commended her to the Lestrange brothers for their use, and the three of them were happy in their own special way.’</p>

    <p>‘I doubt it,’ Harry’s mouth said, mostly on autopilot. ‘If that were true, Bellatrix wouldn’t have remembered who the Lestrange brothers were, when we found her in Azkaban.’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell shrugged. ‘You may be right.’</p>

    <p>‘What the hell were we actually doing there?’</p>

    <p>‘Finding out where Bellatrix had put my wand. I had told the Death Eaters of my immortality, in the hope – now proven futile – that they would stay together for at least a few <em>days</em> if I appeared to die. Bellatrix’s instructions were to recover my wand from wherever my body had been slain; and take that wand to a certain graveyard where my spirit would appear before her.’</p>

    <p>Harry swallowed. The image came to him of Bellatrix Black waiting, waiting, waiting at the graveyard, in increasing desperation … it was no wonder she hadn’t been thinking strategically when she attacked the Longbottom household. ‘What did you do with Bellatrix once she was out?’</p>

    <p>‘<i class="parsel">Ssent her to a peaceful place to recover sstrength</i>,’ Professor Quirrell said. A cold smile. ‘I had a use remaining for her, or rather a certain portion of her, and on my future plans I shall not answer questions.’</p>

    <p>Harry breathed deeply, trying to maintain control. ‘Were there any other secret plots in this school year?’</p>

    <p>‘Oh, a fair number, but not many more that concern you, not that I can think of offhand. The true reason I demanded to try to teach the Patronus Charm to first-years was to bring a Dementor before your own person, and then I arranged for your wand to fall where the Dementor could continue to drain you through it. <i class="parsel">Wa<span class="ps">s</span> no malice in it, only hope<span class="ps">s</span> that you would recover <span class="ps">s</span>ome of your true memorie<span class="ps">s</span>.</i> That was also why I arranged for certain witches to pull you down from the air during your rooftop episode, so I could appear to save your life; just in case any suspicion fell on me during the Dementor incident I had scheduled for shortly after. <i class="parsel">Al<span class="ps">s</span>o no malice there.</i> I arranged some of the attacks on Miss&#160;Granger’s group, so that the attacks could be defeated; I do rather dislike bullies. <i class="parsel">Think that i<span class="ps">s</span> all <span class="ps">s</span>ecret plot<span class="ps">s</span> concerning you from thi<span class="ps">s</span> <span class="ps">s</span>chool-year, unless I have forgotten <span class="ps">s</span>omething.</i>’</p>

    <p><i>Life lesson learned,</i> said his Hufflepart. <i>Try to resist the temptation to randomly meddle in other people’s lives. Like, you know, Padma Patil’s life. If you don’t want to end up like this, that is.</i></p>


</div>
</body>
</html>