<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
<div class="calibre1">
    <p>That night at dinnertime, Susan Bones came to Harry Potter and told him that she thought Draco Malfoy was going to carry out his plot against Hermione very soon. She was warning all the members of <abbr>S.P.H.E.W.</abbr>, and she’d warned Professor Sprout, and she’d warned Professor Flitwick, and she was going to send a letter to her Aunt tonight, and now she was warning Harry Potter, too. Only they couldn’t quite talk about it with Padma – Susan said, looking very serious – because Padma was feeling torn between her loyalty to Hermione and her loyalty to her General.</p>

    <p>Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres, who was at this point feeling more frustrated with the entire situation than anything really <em>productive</em>, snapped at her that <em>yes</em>, he knew something had to be done.</p>

    <p>After Susan Bones left, Harry looked over at the other end of the Ravenclaw table, where Hermione had sat down away from him or Padma or Anthony or any of her other friends.</p>

    <p>But Hermione didn’t look like she was in a mood where somebody going over and bothering her would be taken very well.</p>

    <p>Later, looking backward, Harry would think of how, in his SF and fantasy novels, people always made their big, important choices for big, important reasons. Hari Seldon had created his Foundation to rebuild the ashes of the Galactic Empire, not because he would look more important if he could be in charge of his own research group. Raistlin Majere had severed ties with his brother because he wanted to become a god, not because he was incompetent at personal relationships and unwilling to ask for advice on how to do better. Frodo Baggins had taken the Ring because he was a hero who wanted to save Middle-Earth, not because it would’ve been too awkward not to. If anyone ever wrote a true history of the world – not that anyone ever could or would – probably 97% of all the key moments of Fate would turn out to be constructed of lies and tissue paper and trivial little thoughts that somebody could’ve just as easily thought differently.</p>

    <p>Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres looked at Hermione Granger, where she’d sat down at the other end of the table, and felt a sense of reluctance to bother her when she looked like she was already in a bad mood.</p>

    <p>So then Harry thought that it probably made more sense to talk to Draco Malfoy first, just so that he could absolutely positively definitely assure Hermione that Draco really wasn’t plotting against her.</p>

    <p>And later on after dinner, when Harry went down to the Slytherin basement and was told by Vincent that <i>the boss ain’t to be disturbed</i> … then Harry thought that maybe he should see if Hermione would talk to him right away. That he should just get started on unravelling the whole mess before it ravelled any further. Harry wondered if he might just be procrastinating, if his mind had just found a clever excuse to put off something unenjoyable-but-necessary.</p>

    <p>He actually thought that.</p>

    <p>And then Harry James Potter-Evans-Verres decided that he’d just talk to Draco Malfoy the next morning instead, after Sunday breakfast, and <em>then</em> talk to Hermione.</p>

    <p>Human beings did that sort of thing all the time.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>It was Sunday morning, on the 5th of April, 1992, and the simulated sky above the Great Hall of Hogwarts showed great torrents of rain pouring down in such density that the lightning flashes were diminished and scattered into small pulses of white light that sometimes transformed the House tables, paling their faces and making all the students appear briefly to be ghosts.</p>

    <p>Harry sat at the Ravenclaw table, wearily eating a waffle, waiting for Draco to make an appearance so that he could get started on sorting this whole thing out. There was a <em>Quibbler</em> being passed around which had somehow ended up with Hannah and Daphne on the front page, but it hadn’t reached his place yet.</p>

    <p>A few minutes later Harry finished eating his waffle, and then looked around again to see if Draco had arrived yet for breakfast at the Slytherin table.</p>

    <p>It was odd.</p>

    <p>Draco Malfoy was almost never late.</p>

    <p>Since Harry was looking in the direction of the Slytherin table, he didn’t see Hermione Granger entering through the huge doors of the Great Hall. Thus he was rather startled when he turned back and discovered Hermione sitting down directly beside him at the Ravenclaw table, just as if she hadn’t not-done that for more than a week.</p>

    <p>‘Hi, Harry,’ Hermione said, her voice sounding almost exactly normal. She started to put toast on her plate and a selection of healthy fruits and vegetables. ‘How are you?’</p>

    <p>‘Within one standard deviation of my own peculiar little average,’ Harry automatically replied. ‘How are you doing? Did you sleep okay?’</p>

    <p>There were dark bags under Hermione Granger’s eyes.</p>

    <p>‘Why, yes, I’m fine,’ said Hermione Granger.</p>

    <p>‘Um,’ Harry said. He took a slice of pie onto his plate (as his brain was occupied with other things, Harry’s hand simply took the tastiest thing within range, without evaluating complex concepts like whether he was ready to eat dessert). ‘Um, Hermione, I’m going to need to talk to you later today, is that okay?’</p>

    <p>‘Sure,’ said Hermione. ‘Why wouldn’t it be?’</p>

    <p>‘Because&#160;–’ Harry said. ‘I mean – you and I haven’t – for the last few days&#160;–’</p>

    <p><i>Shut up,</i> suggested an internal part of Harry that seemed to have been recently allocated for governing Hermione-related issues.</p>

    <p>Hermione Granger didn’t look like she was paying much attention to him in any case. She just stared down at her plate, and then, after about ten seconds of awkward silence, began to eat her tomato slices, one after another, without pause.</p>

    <p>Harry looked away from her and began to eat a slice of pie which, he discovered, had somehow materialized on his plate.</p>

    <p>‘So!’ Hermione Granger suddenly said after she’d polished off most of her plate in silence. ‘Anything happening today?’</p>

    <p>‘Um …’ Harry said. He looked around frantically, as though to find something-happening that he could use as conversational fodder.</p>

    <p>And so Harry was one of the first to see it, and wordlessly point, although the sudden swell of whispers that swept through the Great Hall showed that a number of other people had seen it too.</p>

    <p>The distinctive crimson tinge of the robes would have been recognizable anywhere, but it still took Harry’s brain a few moments to place the faces. An Asianish-looking man, solemn, and today looking rather grim. A man with a piercing gaze that swept over the room, his long black hair waving behind him in a ponytail. A man thin and pale and unshaven, with a face so blank that it was like stone. It took Harry a few moment to place the faces, and remember the names, from that long-ago day in January when the Dementor had come to Hogwarts: <i>Komodo, Butnaru, Goryanof.</i></p>

    <p>‘An Auror trio?’ Hermione said in a strange bright voice. ‘Why, I wonder what they’d be doing here.’</p>

    <p>Dumbledore was in their company as well, looking as worried as Harry had ever seen him; and after a moment’s pause while the old wizard’s eyes scanned the Great Hall and the students whispering over their breakfasts, he pointed –</p>

    <p>– straight at Harry.</p>

    <p>‘Oh, now what,’ Harry said under his breath. His inward thoughts were a lot more panicked than that, as he wondered frantically if anyone had connected him to the Azkaban breakout somehow. He looked at the Head Table, trying to make the glance casual, and realized that Professor Quirrell was nowhere to be seen, this morning –</p>

    <p>The Aurors swept toward him with swift strides, Auror Goryanof approaching from the other side of the Ravenclaw table as though to block any escape in that direction, Auror Komodo and Auror Butnaru approaching from Harry’s side, the Headmaster following straight on Komodo’s heels.</p>

    <p>All conversation everywhere had ground to utter silence.</p>

    <p>The Aurors reached Harry’s place at the table, surrounding him from three angles.</p>

    <p>‘Yes?’ Harry said, as normally as he could. ‘What is it?’</p>

    <p>‘Hermione Granger,’ Auror Komodo said in a toneless voice, ‘you are under arrest for the attempted murder of Draco Malfoy.’</p>

    <p>The words dropped into Harry’s consciousness and shattered his thoughts into a hundred shards of incredulity, the shock of adrenaline running into so much confusion that –</p>

    <p>‘She&#160;–’ Harry said. ‘She – she wouldn’t – <em>What?</em>’</p>

    <p>The Aurors weren’t paying any attention to him. Komodo spoke again, still in that colourless voice. ‘Mr&#160;Malfoy has regained consciousness in St. Mungo’s and named you, Hermione Granger, as his assaulter. He has repeated these accusations under two drops of Veritaserum. The Blood-Cooling Charm you cast upon Mr&#160;Malfoy would have killed him if he had not been found and treated, and it must be presumed known to you that this was a fatal curse. I therefore arrest you upon the serious charge of attempted murder and you will be taken into Ministry custody to be interrogated under three drops of Veritaserum&#160;–’</p>

    <p><i>‘Are you mad?’</i> the words burst out of Harry’s mouth, as he shoved himself up from the Ravenclaw table, an instant before Auror Butnaru’s hand clamped down hard upon his shoulder. Harry ignored it. ‘That’s <i>Hermione Granger</i> you’re trying to arrest, the nicest girl in Ravenclaw, she helps Hufflepuffs with their homework, she’d <em>die</em> before she tried to kill <em>anyone –</em>’</p>

    <p>Hermione Granger’s face had crumpled. ‘I did it,’ she whispered in a tiny voice. ‘It was me.’</p>

    <p>Another huge rock fell on Harry’s thoughts and crushed their fragile order, bursting fragments of comprehension into dust.</p>

    <p>Dumbledore’s face seemed to have aged decades over the course of seconds. ‘Why, Miss&#160;Granger?’ Dumbledore said, his own voice barely above a whisper. ‘Why would you do such a thing?’</p>

    <p>‘I’m,’ Hermione said, ‘I’m, I’m – sorry – I don’t know why I&#160;–’ She seemed to collapse in on herself, her voice was formed of nothing but sobs, and the only words that could be made out were, ‘I thought – killed him – sorry&#160;–’</p>

    <p>And Harry should have said something, should have done something, should have jumped up out of his seat and stunned all three Aurors and then gone on to some incredibly clever next move, but the twice-shattered fragments of his thought processes could yield no output. Butnaru’s hand pushed Harry gently but firmly back into his seat and Harry found himself <em>stuck</em> there like he’d been glued, he tried to grab his wand for a <em>Finite</em> and it wouldn’t come out of his pocket, the three Aurors and Dumbledore escorted Hermione out of the Great Hall amid a rising storm of outcries and the doors began to swing shut behind them – nothing made sense, it was surreal beyond all reckoning, like he’d been transported into an alternate universe, and then Harry’s mind flashed back to another day of confusion and in a moment of desperate inspiration he finally realized what the Weasley twins had done to Rita Skeeter, and his voice rose in a scream, <i class="shout">‘Hermione you didn’t do it you’ve been false-memory-charmed!’</i></p>

    <p>But the doors had already shut.</p>


</div>
</body>
</html>