<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body><div class="calibre1"> <hr/>

    <p>The time was just before noon, and Harry and Professor Quirrell were seated at the foot and head of a wide, long, flat table, in a sumptuously appointed private room with thoroughly cushioned couches and chairs along the walls, and soft curtains hanging everywhere.</p>

    <p>They were about to eat lunch in Mary’s Place, which Professor Quirrell had said was known to him as one of the best restaurants in Diagon Alley, especially for – his voice had dropped meaningfully – <i>certain purposes.</i></p>

    <p>It was the nicest restaurant that Harry had ever been in, and it was really eating away at Harry that Professor Quirrell was treating <em>him</em> to the meal.</p>

    <p>The first part of the mission, to find an Occlumency instructor, had been a success. Professor Quirrell, smiling evilly, had told Griphook to recommend the best he knew, and not worry about the expense, since Dumbledore was paying it; and the goblin had smiled in return. There might have been a certain amount of smiling on Harry’s part as well.</p>

    <p>The second part of the plan had been a complete failure.</p>

    <p>Harry was not allowed to take money out of his vault without Headmaster Dumbledore or some other school official present, and Professor Quirrell had not been given the vault key. Harry’s Muggle parents could not authorize it because they were Muggles, and Muggles had around the same legal standing as children or kittens: they were cute, so if you tortured them in public you could get arrested, but they weren’t <em>people</em>. Some reluctant provision had been made for recognizing the parents of Muggleborns as human in a limited sense, but Harry’s adoptive parents did not fall into that legal category.</p>

    <p>It seemed that Harry was effectively an orphan in the eyes of the wizarding world. As such, the Headmaster of Hogwarts, or his deputies <em>within</em> the school system, were Harry’s guardians until he graduated. Harry <em>could</em> breathe without Dumbledore’s permission, but only so long as the Headmaster did not specifically prohibit it.</p>

    <p>Harry had then asked if he could simply <em>tell</em> Griphook how to diversify his investments beyond stacks of gold coins sitting in his vault.</p>

    <p>Griphook had stared blankly and asked what <i class="q">diversify</i> meant.</p>

    <p>Banks, it seemed, did not make investments. Banks stored your gold coins in secure vaults for an annual fee.</p>

    <p>The wizarding world did not have a concept of stock. Or equity. Or corporations. Businesses were run by families out of their personal vaults.</p>

    <p>Loans were made by rich people, not banks. Though Gringotts would witness the contract, for a fee, and enforce its collection, for a much larger fee.</p>

    <p>Good rich people let their friends borrow money and pay it back whenever. <em>Bad</em> rich people charged you <em>interest.</em></p>

    <p>There was no secondary market in loans.</p>

    <p>Evil rich people charged you annual interest rates of at least 20%.</p>

    <p>Harry had stood up, turned away, and rested his head against the wall.</p>

    <p>Harry had asked if he needed the Headmaster’s permission before he could start a bank.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell had interrupted at this point, saying that it was time for lunch, and swiftly conducted a fuming Harry out of the bronze doors of Gringotts, through Diagon Alley, and to a fine restaurant called Mary’s Place, where a room had been reserved for them. The owner had looked shocked at seeing Professor Quirrell accompanied by Harry Potter, but had conducted them to the room without complaint.</p>

    <p>And Professor Quirrell had quite deliberately announced that he would pay the bill, seeming to rather enjoy the look on Harry’s face.</p>

    <p>‘No,’ said Professor Quirrell to the waitress, ‘we will not require menus. I will have the daily special accompanied by a bottle of Chianti, and Mr&#160;Potter will have the Diracawl soup to start, followed by a plate of Roopo balls, and treacle pudding for dessert.’</p>

    <p>The waitress, clad in robes that still looked severe and formal while being rather shorter than usual, bowed respectfully and departed, shutting the door behind her.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell waved a hand in the direction of the door, and a bolt slid shut. ‘Note the bolt on the inside. This room, Mr&#160;Potter, is known as Mary’s Room. It happens to be proof against all scrying, and I do mean <em>all;</em> Dumbledore himself could detect nothing of what happens here. Mary’s Room is used by two kinds of people. The first sort are engaged in illicit dalliances. And the second sort lead interesting lives.’</p>

    <p><em>‘Really,’</em> said Harry.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell nodded.</p>

    <p>Harry’s lips were parted in anticipation. ‘It would be a waste to just sit here and eat lunch, then, without doing anything special.’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell grinned, then took out his wand and flicked it in the direction of the door. ‘Of course,’ he said, ‘people who lead interesting lives take precautions more <em>thorough</em> than the dalliers. I have just sealed us in. Nothing will now pass in or out of this room – through the crack under the door, for example. And …’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell then spoke no fewer than four different Charms, none of which Harry recognized.</p>

    <p>‘Even that does not <em>really</em> suffice,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘If we were doing anything of truly great import, it would be necessary to perform another twenty-three checks besides those. If, say, Rita Skeeter knew or guessed that we would come here, it is possible that she could be in this room wearing the true Cloak of Invisibility. Or she could be an Animagus with a tiny form, perhaps. There are tests to rule out such rare possibilities, but to perform all of them would be arduous. Still, I wonder if I should do them anyway, just so as not to teach you bad habits?’ And Professor Quirrell tapped a finger on his cheek, looking abstracted.</p>

    <p>‘It’s fine,’ Harry said, ‘I understand, and I’ll remember.’ Though he was a little disappointed that they weren’t doing anything of truly great import.</p>

    <p>‘Very well,’ Professor Quirrell said. He leaned back in his chair, smiling broadly. ‘You wrought quite well today, Mr&#160;Potter. The basic notion was yours, I’m sure, even if you delegated the execution. I don’t think we’ll be hearing much more from Rita Skeeter after this. Lucius Malfoy will not be pleased with her failure. If she’s smart, she’ll flee the country the instant she realizes she’s been fooled.’</p>

    <p>A sinking sensation began to dawn in Harry’s stomach. ‘Lucius was behind Rita Skeeter … ?’</p>

    <p>‘Oh, you didn’t realize that?’ said Professor Quirrell.</p>

    <p>Harry hadn’t thought about what would happen to Rita Skeeter afterwards.</p>

    <p>At all.</p>

    <p>Not in the slightest.</p>

    <p>But she would get fired from her job, <i>of course</i> she would be fired, she might have children going through Hogwarts for all Harry knew, and now it was worse, much worse –</p>

    <p>‘Is Lucius going to have her killed?’ Harry said in a barely audible voice. Somewhere in his head, the Sorting Hat was screaming at him.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell smiled dryly. ‘If you have not dealt with journalists before, take it from me that the world gets a little brighter every time one dies.’</p>

    <p>Harry jumped out of his chair with a convulsive movement, he had to find Rita Skeeter and warn her before it was too late –</p>

    <p>‘<i>Sit down</i>,’ Professor Quirrell said sharply. ‘<em>No</em>, Lucius won’t kill her. But Lucius makes life <em>extremely</em> unpleasant for those who serve him ill. Miss&#160;Skeeter will flee and start her life over with a new name. <i>Sit down,</i> Mr&#160;Potter; there is nothing you can do at this point, and you have a lesson to learn.’</p>

    <p>Harry sat down, slowly. There was a disappointed, annoyed look on Professor Quirrell’s face that was doing more to stop him than the words.</p>

    <p>‘There are times,’ Professor Quirrell said, his voice cutting, ‘when I worry that your brilliant Slytherin mind is simply wasted on you. Repeat after me. Rita Skeeter was a vile, disgusting woman.’</p>

    <p>‘Rita Skeeter was a vile, disgusting woman,’ Harry said. He wasn’t comfortable saying it, but there didn’t seem to be any other possible actions, none at all.</p>

    <p>‘Rita Skeeter tried to destroy my reputation, but I executed an ingenious plan and destroyed <em>her</em> reputation first.’</p>

    <p>‘Rita Skeeter challenged me. She lost the game, and I won.’</p>

    <p>‘Rita Skeeter was an obstacle to my future plans. I had no choice but to deal with her if I wanted those plans to succeed.’</p>

    <p>‘Rita Skeeter was my enemy.’</p>

    <p>‘I cannot possibly get anything done in life if I am not willing to defeat my enemies.’</p>

    <p>‘I have defeated one of my enemies today.’</p>

    <p>‘I am a good boy.’</p>

    <p>‘I deserve a special reward.’</p>

    <p>‘Ah,’ said Professor Quirrell, who had been grinning a benevolent smile for the last few lines, ‘I see I have succeeded in catching your attention.’</p>

    <p>That was true. And while Harry felt like he was being railroaded into something – no, that wasn’t just a feeling, he <em>had</em> been railroaded – he couldn’t deny that saying those things, and seeing Professor Quirrell’s smile, <em>did</em> make him feel better.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell reached into his robes, the gesture slow and deliberately significant, and drew forth …</p>

    <p>… a <em>book</em>.</p>

    <p>It was different from any book Harry had ever seen, the edges and corners visibly misshapen; <em>rough-hewn</em> was the phrase that came to mind, like it had been hacked out of a book mine.</p>

    <p>‘What is it?’ breathed Harry.</p>

    <p>‘A diary,’ said Professor Quirrell.</p>

    <p>‘Whose?’</p>

    <p>‘That of a famous person.’ Professor Quirrell was smiling broadly.</p>

    <p>‘Okay …’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell’s expression became more serious. ‘Mr&#160;Potter, one of the requisites for becoming a powerful wizard is an excellent memory. The key to a puzzle is often something you read twenty years ago in an old scroll, or a peculiar ring you saw on the finger of a man you met only once. I mention this to explain how I managed to remember this item, and the label attached to it, after meeting you a good deal later. You see, Mr&#160;Potter, over the course of my life, I have viewed a number of private collections held by individuals who are, perhaps, not quite deserving of all that they have&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘You <em>stole</em> it?’ Harry said incredulously.</p>

    <p>‘That is correct,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘Very recently, in fact. I think you will appreciate this particular item much more than the vile little man who held it for no other purpose than impressing his equally vile friends with its rarity.’</p>

    <p>Harry was simply gaping now.</p>

    <p>‘But if you feel that my actions were incorrect, Mr&#160;Potter, I suppose you needn’t accept your special present. Though of course I shan’t go to the trouble of putting it <em>back</em>. So which is it to be?’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell tossed the book from one hand to another, causing Harry to reach out involuntarily with a look of dismay.</p>

    <p>‘Oh,’ said Professor Quirrell, ‘don’t worry about a little rough handling. You could toss this diary in a fireplace and it would emerge unscathed. In any case, I await your decision.’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell casually threw the book up into the air and caught it again, grinning.</p>

    <p><em>No,</em> said Gryffindor and Hufflepuff.</p>

    <p><em>Yes</em>, said Ravenclaw. <i>What part of the word <i class="q">book</i> did you two not understand?</i></p>

    <p><i>The theft part,</i> said Hufflepuff.</p>

    <p><i>Oh, come on,</i> said Ravenclaw, <i>you can’t seriously ask us to say no and spend the rest of our life wondering what it was.</i></p>

    <p><i>It sounds like a net positive from a utilitarian standpoint,</i> said Slytherin. <i>Think of it as an economic transaction which generates gains from trade, only without the trade part. Plus, <em>we</em> didn’t steal it and it won’t help anyone to have Professor Quirrell keep it.</i></p>

    <p><i>He’s trying to turn you Dark!</i> shrieked Gryffindor, and Hufflepuff nodded firmly.</p>

    <p><i>Don’t be a naive little boy,</i> said Slytherin, <i>he’s trying to teach you Slytherin.</i></p>

    <p><i>Yeah,</i> said Ravenclaw. <i>Whoever owned the book originally was probably a Death Eater or something. It belongs with us.</i></p>

    <p>Harry’s mouth opened, then halted that way, an agonized look on his face.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell seemed to be quite enjoying himself. He had balanced the book on its corner, on one finger, and was keeping it upright while humming a little tune.</p>

    <p>There came a knock at the door.</p>

    <p>The book vanished back into Professor Quirrell’s robes, and he rose up from his chair. Professor Quirrell started to walk over to the door –</p>

    <p>– and staggered, suddenly lurching into the wall.</p>

    <p>‘It’s all right,’ said Professor Quirrell’s voice, which suddenly sounded a lot weaker than usual. ‘Sit down, Mr&#160;Potter, it’s just a dizzy spell. Sit down.’</p>

    <p>Harry’s fingers gripped the edge of his chair, uncertain as to what he should do, what he <em>could</em> do. Harry couldn’t even get too close to Professor Quirrell, not unless he wanted to defy that sense of Doom –</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell straightened, then, his breathing seeming a bit heavy, and opened the door.</p>

    <p>The waitress came in, bearing a platter of food; and as she distributed the plates, Professor Quirrell walked slowly back to the table.</p>

    <p>But by the time the waitress had bowed her way out, Professor Quirrell was sitting upright and smiling again.</p>

    <p>Still, the brief episode of whatever-it-was had decided Harry. He couldn’t say no, not after Professor Quirrell had gone to that much trouble.</p>

    <p>‘Yes,’ Harry said.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell held up a cautioning finger, then took out his wand again, locked the door again, and repeated three of the same Charms from earlier.</p>

    <p>Then Professor Quirrell took the book back out of his robes and tossed it to Harry, who almost dropped it into his soup.</p>

    <p>Harry shot Professor Quirrell a look of helpless indignation. You weren’t supposed to <em>do</em> that with books, enchanted or not.</p>

    <p>Harry opened the book with ingrained, instinctive care. The pages seemed too thick, with a texture unlike either Muggle paper or wizarding parchment. And the contents were …</p>

    <p>… blank?</p>

    <p>‘Am I supposed to be seeing&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Look nearer the beginning,’ said Professor Quirrell, and Harry (again with that helpless, ingrained care) turned a block of pages back.</p>

    <p>The lettering was obviously handwritten, and very hard to read, but Harry thought the words might be Latin.</p>

    <p>‘What <em>is</em> this?’ said Harry.</p>

    <p>‘That,’ said Professor Quirrell, ‘is a record of the magical researches of a Muggleborn who never came to Hogwarts. He refused his letter, and conducted his own small investigations, which never did get very far without a wand. From the description on the placard, I expect that his name bears rather more significance to you than to me. That, Harry Potter, is the diary of Roger Bacon.’</p>

    <p>Harry almost fainted.</p>

    <p>Nestled up against the wall, where Professor Quirrell had stumbled, glistened the crushed remains of a beautiful blue beetle.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>