<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
<body><div class="calibre1">

    <p>Harry, having now finished his cauldron, was carefully scooping acorns into the container while the scouts searched for a nearby source of water that could be used as a liquid base. They’d come across frequent sinkholes and miniature creeks in the forest before, so it ought not to take long. Another scout had brought a straight stick that would serve as a stirrer, so Harry didn’t have to Transfigure one.</p>

    <p>Sometimes, even though you were looking straight at something, you didn’t realize <em>what</em> you were looking at until you happened to ask exactly the right question …</p>

    <p class="thought">How can I invoke magical powers that ought to be beyond the reach of first-year students?</p>

    <p>There was a cautionary tale the Potions Master had told them (with much sneers and laughter to make the stupidity seem low-status instead of daring and romantic) about a second-year witch in Beauxbatons who’d stolen some extremely restricted and expensive ingredients, and tried to brew Polyjuice, so she could borrow the form of another girl for purposes better left unmentioned. Only she’d managed to contaminate the potion with <i>cat hairs,</i> and then instead of seeking a healer immediately, the witch had hidden herself in a bathroom, hoping the effects would just wear off; and when she’d finally been found, it had been too late to reverse the transformation completely, condemning her to a life of despair as a sort of cat-girl hybrid.</p>

    <p>Harry hadn’t realized what that <em>meant</em> until the instant of thinking the right question – but what that implied was that a young wizard or witch could do things with Potions-Making that they couldn’t even come close to doing with Charms. Polyjuice was one of the most potent potions known … but what made Polyjuice a N.E.W.T.-level potion, apparently, wasn’t the required age before you had enough magical power; it was how difficult the potion was to brew precisely and what happened to you if you messed up.</p>

    <p>Nobody in any army had tried brewing any potions up until then. But Professor Quirrell would let you get away with nearly anything, if it was something you could also have done in a real war. <i>Cheating is technique,</i> the Defence Professor had once lectured them. <i>Or rather, cheating is what the losers call technique, and will be worth extra Quirrell points when executed successfully.</i> In principle, there was nothing unrealistic about Transfiguring a couple of cauldrons and brewing potions out of whatever came to hand, if you had enough time before the armies met.</p>

    <p>So Harry had retrieved his copy of <i>Magical Drafts and Potions,</i> and begun looking for a safe but useful potion he could brew in the minutes before the battle started – a potion which would win the battle too fast for counter-spells, or produce spell effects too strong for first-years to <em>Finite.</em></p>

    <p>Sometimes, even though you were looking straight at something, you didn’t realize <em>what</em> you were looking at until you happened to ask exactly the right question …</p>

    <p class="thought">What potion can I brew using only components gathered from an ordinary forest?</p>

    <p>Every recipe in <i>Magical Drafts and Potions</i> used at least one ingredient from a magical plant or animal. Which was unfortunate, because all the <em>magical</em> plants and animals were in the Forbidden Forest, not the safer and lesser woods where battles were held.</p>

    <p>Someone else might have given up at that point.</p>

    <p>Harry had turned the pages from one recipe to another, skimming faster and faster in dawning realization, confirming what he had already read and was now <em>seeing</em> for the first time.</p>

    <p>Every single Potions recipe seemed to demand at least one magical ingredient, <i>but why should that be true?</i></p>

    <p>Charms required no material components at all; you just said the words and waved your wand. Harry had been thinking about Potions-Making as essentially analogous: instead of your spoken syllables triggering a spell effect for no comprehensible reason, you collected a batch of disgusting ingredients and stirred four times clockwise, and that arbitrarily triggered a spell effect.</p>

    <p>In which case, given that most potions used ordinary components like porcupine quills or stewed slugs, you’d expect to see some potions using <em>only</em> ordinary components.</p>

    <p>But instead every single recipe in <i>Magical Drafts and Potions</i> demanded at least <em>one</em> component from a magical plant or animal – an ingredient like silk from an Acromantula or petals from a Venus Fire Trap.</p>

    <p>Sometimes, even though you were looking straight at something, you didn’t realize <em>what</em> you were looking at until you happened to ask exactly the right question …</p>

    <p class="thought">If making a potion is like casting a Charm, why don’t I fall over from exhaustion after brewing a draught as powerful as boil-curing?</p>

    <p>The Friday before last, Harry’s double Potions class had brewed <i>potion of boil-curing</i> … although even the most trivial healing Charms, if you tried to cast them with wand and incantation, were at least fourth-year spells. And afterwards, they’d all felt the way they usually felt after Potions class, namely, <em>not</em> magically exhausted to any discernible degree.</p>

    <p>Harry had shut his copy of <i>Magical Drafts and Potions</i> with a snap, and rushed down to the Ravenclaw common room. Harry had found a seventh-year Ravenclaw doing his N.E.W.T. potions homework and paid the older boy a Sickle to borrow <i>Moste Potente Potions</i> for five minutes; because Harry hadn’t wanted to run all the way to the library to find confirmation.</p>

    <p>After skimming through five recipes in the seventh-year book, Harry had read the sixth recipe, for a <i>potion of fire breathing</i>, which required Ashwinder eggs … and the book warned that the resulting fire could be no hotter than the magical fire which had spawned the Ashwinder which had laid the eggs.</p>

    <p>Harry had shouted <em>‘Eureka!’</em> right in the middle of the Ravenclaw common room, and been severely rebuked by a nearby prefect, who’d thought Mr&#160;Potter was trying to cast a spell. Nobody in the wizarding world knew or cared about some ancient Muggle named Archimedes, nor the ur-physicist’s realization that the water displaced from a bathtub would equal the volume of the object entering the bathtub …</p>

    <p>Conservation laws. They’d been the critical insight in more Muggle discoveries than Harry could easily count. In Muggle technology you couldn’t raise a feather one metre off the ground without the power coming from <em>somewhere.</em> If you looked at molten lava spilling from a volcano and asked where the heat came from, a physicist would tell you about radioactive heavy metals in the centre of the Earth’s molten core. If you asked where the energy to power the radioactivity came from, the physicist would point to an era before the Earth had formed, and a primordial supernova in the early days of the galaxy which had baked atomic nuclei heavier than the natural limit, the supernova compressing protons and neutrons into a tight unstable package that yielded back some of the supernova’s energy when it split. A light bulb was fuelled by electricity, fuelled by a nuclear power plant, fuelled by a supernova … You could play the game all the way back to the Big Bang.</p>

    <p>Magic did <em>not</em> appear to work like this, to put it mildly. Magic’s attitude toward laws like Conservation of Energy was somewhere between a giant extended middle finger, and a shrug of total indifference. <em>Aguamenti</em> created water out of nothingness, so far as anyone knew; there was no known lake whose water level went down each time. That was a simple fifth-year spell, not considered impressive by wizards, because creating a mere glass of water didn’t seem amazing to them. They didn’t have the wacky notion that mass ought to be conserved, or that creating a gram of mass was somehow equivalent to creating 90,000,000,000,000 joules of energy. There was an upper-year spell Harry had run across whose <i>literal incantation</i> was <i class="q"><i>Arresto Momentum!</i></i> and when Harry had asked if the momentum went anywhere <em>else</em> he’d just got a puzzled look. Harry had kept an increasingly desperate eye out for <em>some</em> kind of conservation principle in magic, anywhere whatsoever …</p>

    <p>… and the whole time it had been right in front of him in every Potions class. Potions-Making didn’t <em>create</em> magic, it <em>preserved</em> magic, that was why every potion needed at least one magical ingredient. And by following instructions like <i class="q">stir four times anticlockwise and once clockwise</i> – Harry had hypothesized – you were doing something like casting a small spell that reshaped the magic in the ingredients. (And unbound the physical form so that ingredients like porcupine quills dissolved smoothly into a drinkable liquid; Harry strongly suspected that a Muggle following exactly the same recipe would end up with nothing but a spiny mess.) That was what Potions-Making really <em>was,</em> the art of transforming existing magical essences. So you were a little tired after Potions class, but not much, because you weren’t empowering the potions yourself, you were just reshaping magic that was already there. And that was why a second-year witch could brew Polyjuice, or at least get close.</p>

    <p>Harry had kept scanning through <i>Moste Potente Potions,</i> looking for something that might disprove his shiny new theory. After five minutes he’d flipped the older boy another Sickle (over his protests) and kept going.</p>

    <p>The <i>potion of giant strength</i> required a Re’em to trample the mashed Dugbogs you stirred into the potion. It was odd, Harry had realized after a moment, because crushed Dugbogs weren’t strong themselves, they were just … very, very crushed after the Re’em got through with them.</p>

    <p>Another recipe said to <i class="q">touch with forged bronze</i>, i.e., grasp a Knut in pliers so you could skim the potion’s surface; and if you dropped the Knut all the way in, the book warned, the potion would instantly superheat and boil over the cauldron.</p>

    <p>Harry had stared at the recipes and their warnings, forming a second and stranger hypothesis. Of course it wouldn’t be as simple as Potions-Making using magical potentials imbued in the ingredients, like Muggle cars fuelled by the combustion potential of gasoline. Magic would never be as sensible as that …</p>

    <p>And then Harry had gone to Professor Flitwick – since he didn’t want to approach Professor Snape outside of class – and Harry had told Professor Flitwick that he wanted to invent a new potion, and he knew what the ingredients ought to be and what the potion should do, but he didn’t know how to deduce the required stirring pattern –</p>

    <p>After Professor Flitwick had stopped screaming in horror and running in little circles, and Professor McGonagall had been called into the ensuing fierce interrogation to promise Harry that in this case it was both acceptable and important for him to reveal his underlying theory, it had developed that Harry had not made an original magical discovery, but rediscovered a law so ancient that nobody knew who had first formulated it:</p>

    <p class="thought">A potion spends that which is invested in the creation of its ingredients.</p>

    <p>The heat of goblin forges that had cast the bronze Knut, the Re’em’s strength that had crushed the Dugbogs, the magical fire that had spawned the Ashwinder: all these potencies could be recalled, unlocked, and restructured by the spell-like process of stirring the ingredients in exact patterns.</p>

    <p>(From a Muggle standpoint it was just <em>odd,</em> a deranged version of thermodynamics invented by someone who thought life ought to be <em>fair</em>. From a Muggle standpoint, the heat expended in forging the Knut hadn’t gone into the bronze, the heat had left and dissipated into the environment, becoming permanently less available. Energy was conserved, could be neither created nor destroyed; <em>entropy</em> always increased. But wizards didn’t think that way: from their perspective, if you’d put some amount of work into making a Knut, it stood to reason that you could get exactly the same work back out. Harry had tried to explain why this sounded a bit odd if you’d been raised by Muggles, and Professor McGonagall had asked bemusedly why the Muggle perspective was any better than the wizarding one.)</p>

    <p>The fundamental principle of Potions-Making had no name and no standard phrasing, since then you might be tempted to write it down.</p>

    <p>And someone who wasn’t wise enough to figure out the principle themselves might read it.</p>

    <p>And they would start having all sorts of bright ideas for inventing new Potions.</p>

    <p>And then they would be turned into cat-girls.</p>

    <p>It had been made very clear to Harry that he wasn’t going to be sharing this particular discovery with Neville, or Hermione either after the next armies’ battle. Harry had tried to say something about Hermione seeming really off lately and this being just the sort of thing that might cheer her up. Professor McGonagall had said flatly that he wasn’t even to think it, and Professor Flitwick had raised his little hands and made a gesture as of snapping a wand in half.</p>

    <p>Although the two Professors had been kind enough to suggest that if Mr&#160;Potter thought he knew what the potion’s ingredients should be, he might be able to find an already-existing recipe that did the same thing; and Professor Flitwick had mentioned several volumes in the Hogwarts library that might be useful …</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>The vast parchment-like screen now showed only an aerial view of the forest, from which you could barely make out the camouflaged forms of three armies, split up into two groups each, converging to fight their three-way battle.</p>

    <p>The benches of the Quidditch stadium were now rapidly filling up with the more easily bored sort of spectator who only wanted to be there for the final battle and skip out on all the boring points along the way. (If there was anything wrong with Professor Quirrell’s battles, it was widely agreed, it was that his spectacles didn’t last nearly as long as Quidditch matches, once they actually started. To this Professor Quirrell had replied only, <i>Such is realism,</i> and that had been that.)</p>

    <p>Within the huge window – it was all one window now, observing from a great height – the vague collections of tiny camouflaged forms grew closer.</p>

    <p>Closer.</p>

    <p>Almost touching –</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>The vast white parchment window showed the first touch of battle between Sunshine and Chaos, a screaming mass of running children with smiley-faces upon their breasts, charging forward with <em>Contego</em> shields held high and others shouting <em>‘Somnium!’</em> –</p>

    <p>Until one of their number shrieked <em>‘Prismatis!’</em> in a terrified voice and the entire charge came to a sudden halt before the sparkling wall of force that had appeared in front of them.</p>

    <p>Tracey Davis had walked out from behind the trees.</p>

    <p>‘That’s right,’ said Tracey, her voice low and grim as she levelled her wand on the barrier. ‘You should fear me. For I am Tracey Davis, the Darke Lady! That’s Darke Lady spelled D-A-R-K-E, with an E!’</p>

    <p>(Amelia Bones, Director of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, was sending an inquiring look at Mr&#160;and Mrs&#160;Davis, both of whom looked like they would have dearly loved to die on the spot.)</p>

    <p>Behind the Prismatic Barrier, there was some kind of hushed argument taking place among the Sunshine Soldiers, one of whom in particular seemed to be getting scolded by several of the others.</p>

    <p>Then, a moment later, <em>Tracey</em> flinched.</p>

    <p>Susan Bones had come to the front of the Sunshine contingent.</p>

    <p>(‘Goodness,’ said Augusta Longbottom. ‘What <em>do</em> you suppose your grand-niece has been learning at Hogwarts?’)</p>

    <p>(‘I don’t know,’ Amelia Bones said calmly, ‘but I shall owl her a Chocolate Frog and instructions to learn more of it.’)</p>

    <p>The Prismatic Barrier vanished.</p>

    <p>The Sunshine Soldiers resumed their charge forward.</p>

    <p>Tracey yelled, her voice high with strain, <em>‘Inflammare!’</em> and the Sunshine charge came to another sudden halt as a line of fire blazed up between them in the half-dry grass, extending to follow the path of Tracey’s wand as she pointed it; an instant later Susan Bones cried <i>‘Finite Incantatem!’</i> and the flames dimmed, brightened, dimmed in the contest of their wills, other soldiers raising their wards to aim at Tracey; and <em>that</em> was when Neville Longbottom plunged shrieking out of the sky.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>One of the Dragon Warriors, Raymond Arnold, made a hand-sign, pointing forward and oblique left; and there was a sudden hushed hiss of whispers among the Dragon Army contingent as they all quietly reoriented themselves in the direction of the enemy. The Sunnies knew they were there, of course both armies knew; but somehow, in this moment, they had all become instinctively quiet.</p>

    <p>The Dragons crept forward further, and then further, the dull camouflaged forms of the Sunnies beginning to appear among the distant trees, and still nobody spoke, nobody bellowed the call to charge.</p>

    <p>Draco was now at the forefront of his soldiers, Vincent behind him and Padma only a shade further back; if the three of them could take the shock of Sunshine’s best, the rest of Dragon Army might stand a chance.</p>

    <p>Then Draco saw one Sunnie staring at him from the distance, in the vanguard of her own army; staring at him with a look of fury –</p>

    <p>Across the forest battleground, their eyes met.</p>

    <p>Draco had only a fraction of a second to wonder, in the back of his mind, what Hermione Granger was so angry about, before the shout went up from both their armies; and they were all running forward to the charge.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>The other Chaotics had appeared now from among the trees, some had <i>dropped out</i> of trees, and the battle was in full force now, everyone firing in every direction at anything that looked like an enemy. Plus a number of Sunnies crying <em>‘Luminos!’</em> at Neville Longbottom as the Chaos Hufflepuff twisted and rocketed up through the air on courses that could only be described as, indeed, ‘chaotic’ –</p>

    <p>And it happened, the way it happened only one time out of twenty in mock aerial combat, that Neville Longbottom’s broomstick glowed bright red beneath his clenched hands.</p>

    <p>It should’ve meant that Longbottom was out of the game.</p>

    <p>Then, in the Hogwarts stands, among the watching crowds of students, a scream went up –</p>

    <p><i>Combat realism.</i> It was Professor Quirrell’s one master rule. You could get away with anything if it was realistic, and in real life, a soldier didn’t just vanish when their <em>broomstick</em> got hit by a curse.</p>

    <p>Neville was falling toward the ground and screaming <i>‘Chaotic landing!’</i> and the Chaotics were wrenching their attention away from fights to cast the Hover Charm (and run at the same time so they wouldn’t be sitting ducks), almost everyone else stopping to gape –</p>

    <p>And Neville Longbottom slammed into the leaf-laden forest ground, landing on one knee, one foot, and both hands, as though he were kneeling down to be knighted.</p>

    <p>Everything stopped. Even Tracey and Susan paused in their duel.</p>

    <p>In the stadium, all crowd noises vanished.</p>

    <p>There was a universal silence composed of astonishment, concern, and sheer dumbstruck gaping awe, as everyone waited to see what would happen next.</p>

    <p>And then Neville Longbottom slowly rose to his feet, and levelled his wand at the Sunshine Soldiers.</p>

    <p>Though nobody on the battlefield heard it, a large segment of the stadium audience had begun chanting, in steadily rising notes each time the word was uttered, ‘<span class="shout">doom doom doom doom doom</span>’, because you just couldn’t see that and <em>not</em> think it required musical accompaniment.</p>

    <p>‘The crowd is cheering your grandson,’ said Amelia Bones. The old witch was favouring the screen with a measuring look.</p>

    <p>‘So they are,’ said Augusta Longbottom. ‘Some, if I hear correctly, are cheering, <i>Our blood for Neville! Our souls for Neville!</i>’</p>

    <p>‘Quite,’ said Amelia, taking a sip from a teacup which had not been there moments earlier. ‘It shows the lad has leadership potential.’</p>

    <p>‘These cheers,’ continued Augusta, her voice taking on an even more stunned quality, ‘seem to be coming from the Hufflepuff benches.’</p>

    <p>‘It is the House of the loyal, my dear,’ said Amelia.</p>

    <p>‘Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore! <i>What in Merlin’s name has been happening in this school?</i>’</p>

    <p>Lucius Malfoy was watching the screens with an ironic smile, his fingers tapping at his armrest in no discernible pattern. ‘I do not know what is more frightening, the thought that he has some hidden plan behind all this, or the thought that he does not.’</p>

    <p>‘Look!’ cried the Lord of Greengrass. The dapper young man had risen half out of his chair, pointing his finger at the screen. ‘There she goes!’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>‘We’ll both take him at once,’ Daphne whispered. She knew that a few fear-filled minutes of real combat experience, a handful of times each week, might not be enough to match Neville’s regular duelling practise with Harry and Cedric Diggory over the same period. ‘He’s too much for one of us, but both of us together – I’ll use my Charm, you just try to stun him&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Hannah, beside her, nodded, and then they both screamed at the top of their lungs and charged forward, the Hover Charms of two supporting Sunshine Soldiers moving them faster and making them light on their feet, Daphne already crying <em>‘Tonare!’</em> even as Hannah kept a huge <em>Contego</em> shield moving in front of them, and with a brief extra lift they leapt over the heads of the front screen of soldiers and landed in front of Neville with their hair billowing high around them –</p>

    <p>(Photographs were strictly prohibited at all Hogwarts games, but somehow this moment <em>still</em> ended up on the front page of the next day’s <em>Quibbler</em>.)</p>

    <p>– and in the same instant, because fighting older bullies had burned away the slightest traces of hesitation, Hannah fired her first Sleep Hex at Neville (she’d started the incantation while she was still in the air) even as Daphne, concentrating more on speed than on force, slashed down with her Ancient Blade at where she thought Neville’s thighs would be <em>after</em> he dodged –</p>

    <p>But Neville leapt up, not sideways, leapt up higher than he should’ve been able to go, so that her glowing sword cut only the air beneath his feet. Somehow Daphne realized what it meant, that Neville still had other Chaotics Hovering him, in time for her to raise her Blade up over her head, but Neville <i>fell too fast</i> and when his Blade smashed into hers it was like being hit by a Bludger. It knocked Daphne off her feet and sent her sprawling backward onto the grass, hitting the ground hard on her back. It might have been all over for her, then, if Neville hadn’t landed too hard himself and gone to his knees with a pained gasp. And then before Neville could bring his glowing Blade down, Hannah shouted <em>‘Somnium!’</em> and Neville lurched frantically backward – though of course no spell had actually come from Hannah’s wand, the Hufflepuff girl couldn’t really have fired again that fast – which gave Daphne a second to scramble to her feet and get both hands around her wand again –</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>‘Dear Merlin,’ said Lady Greengrass. Her voice seemed unsteady, the aristocratic poise well-punctured. ‘My daughter is fighting with the Charm of the Most Ancient Blade. In her first year. I never knew she possessed – such extraordinary talent&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Excellent blood,’ Charles Nott said approvingly, causing Augusta to snort.</p>

    <p>‘My good Lady,’ said Professor Quirrell, sounding grave. ‘Do not wrong your daughter so. That is not mere talent which you see.’ His voice grew a little dryer. ‘Rather, it is what happens when children put their competitive efforts into a game which involves actual spell-casting.’</p>

    <hr/>

    <p><em>‘Expelliarmus!’</em> shouted Draco, trying not to let his voice crack as he simultaneously dodged the blazing red stunbolt that Hermione Granger had fired at him, his muscles twisting with the need to dodge in the wrong direction – she’d pointed to his left, and then with a mysterious twitch fired right –</p>

    <p>Hermione dodged the fast-moving duelling hex, and cried with hardly another moment’s pause, <em>‘Steleus!’</em>, a wide-angle Hex that Draco couldn’t avoid, but he managed to point his wand at his own face and cry <em>‘Quiescus!’</em> before the sudden urge to inhale could devolve into a sneezing fit that would’ve ended the battle.</p>

    <p>Draco Malfoy was already half-exhausted from all the Locking Charms and Transfigurations earlier, but his confusion was beginning to give way to a sense of his own blood boiling, he didn’t know why Granger was attacking him so angrily all of a sudden, but <i>if she wanted a fight he’d give her one –</i></p>

    <p>(The Dragons and Sunnies weren’t stopping to watch the duel of their Generals, the Dragons were too disciplined to stop and watch and that meant the Sunnies had to go on fighting too; but the gaping audience in the Hogwarts Quidditch stands were being distracted even from Neville and Daphne’s spectacle, shifting their eyes to the duel of two Generals as Malfoy and Granger fired hex after hex and jinx after jinx at each other, casting more rapidly than any other student in their year could have managed, the Dragon General’s trained duelling dance matched by the Sunshine General’s frantic energy, the combat between them beginning to resemble an adult duel as the two most magically powerful first-years resorted to spells more exotic than the usual Sleep Hex.)</p>

    <p>– although, Draco was beginning to realize, when he and Harry and Professor Quirrell had dismissed Miss&#160;Granger as having as much intent to kill as a bowl of wet grapes, they’d never seen her <em>angry.</em></p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Daphne lashed out with her Ancient Blade, again not trying to hit hard but just moving the Blade as fast as possible, at the same time Hannah cried <em>‘Somnium!’</em> and Neville leapt back again, but it had been another bluff and Hannah was moving in to fire a real spell almost point-blank –</p>

    <p>– and Neville Longbottom did exactly what – he would explain afterwards – Cedric Diggory had trained him to do if he was fighting Bellatrix Black, which was to spin around and kick Hannah <i>really hard</i> in the pit of her stomach.</p>

    <p>The Hufflepuff girl made a sad little sound, a gasping cry of pain, as she was knocked off her feet by the hard shoe sinking into her abdomen with the force of Neville’s whole body behind it.</p>

    <p>For an instant the battlefield stood still, everything halted except Hannah’s falling form.</p>

    <p>Then Neville’s face turned to absolute dismay and he lowered his wand, the Chaotic Lieutenant starting instinctively toward his House-mate as he reached for her with his other hand –</p>

    <p>Even as Hannah turned her fall into a roll and came out with her wand raised and shot him.</p>

    <p>A fractional second later, Daphne, who hadn’t hesitated either, sank her Most Ancient Blade squarely into Neville’s back, causing the Chaotic Lieutenant’s muscles to jerk convulsively with the stunning magic discharging into him even as Hannah’s Sleep Hex took effect, and then the last scion of Longbottom was sprawled still on the ground with a look of total surprise frozen to his face.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>‘Today Mr&#160;Longbottom has learned a valuable lesson about his feelings of pity and remorse,’ said Professor Quirrell.</p>

    <p>‘And chivalry,’ said Amelia, sipping her tea again.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>‘Are you all right?’ whispered Daphne, as she stood protectively over where Hannah lay on the ground clutching her stomach. The girl didn’t give anything back in reply except more retching sounds that sounded like Hannah was trying not to throw up while trying not to cry.</p>

    <p>Somehow, even though it might not have been good tactics – it would’ve been better if Hannah had been hexed outright, than for other soldiers to be tied up protecting her – a number of Sunnies seemed to be standing in front of Hannah with their wands clutched tightly, staring angrily at the Chaotics. Someone had thrown up a Prismatic barrier between the two groups, Daphne couldn’t see who.</p>

    <p>And for some reason the Chaotics didn’t seem to be pressing the attack. Even Tracey had completely dropped the grim look on her face and was shifting her weight nervously from one foot to another, as though she was having trouble remembering which side she was on –</p>

    <p><i>‘Hold!’</i> shouted a voice. <i>‘Hold battle!’</i></p>

    <p>There wasn’t much battle going on anyway, but it held.</p>

    <p>General Potter, looking every inch the Boy-Who-Lived, strode out from the trees with something large and camouflage-cloth-covered held under one arm.</p>

    <p>‘Is Miss&#160;Abbott breathing all right?’ General Potter yelled.</p>

    <p>Daphne didn’t look back. She didn’t trust that this wasn’t a trap – it was absolutely certain that if the Chaotics took the opportunity to attack, Professor Quirrell would not only rule it legal but also award them extra points afterwards. But Daphne could hear the answer well enough with her ears, it wasn’t like Hannah was trying to breathe <em>quietly</em>, and so she said, ‘Sort of.’</p>

    <p>‘She should get out of here and to someone who can use healing Charms,’ Harry said. ‘Just in case that broke something.’</p>

    <p>From behind Daphne, a small gasping voice said, ‘I – can – still – fight&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Miss&#160;Abbott, don’t&#160;–’ Harry said, just as there was the sound from behind Daphne of someone collapsing back to the grass after trying and failing to get to her feet. Everyone winced, but Daphne didn’t turn her back on Harry.</p>

    <p>‘Why haven’t the teachers stopped the battle?’ said Susan, her voice angry.</p>

    <p>‘I expect it’s because Miss&#160;Abbott is in no danger of permanent damage and Professor Quirrell thinks we’re learning valuable lessons,’ Harry said in a hard voice. ‘Look, Miss&#160;Abbott, if you go, Tracey will also retire from the battle. You already outnumber us, so that’s a very good deal for your side. Please take it.’</p>

    <p>‘Hannah, just go!’ said Daphne. ‘I mean, just say you’re out!’</p>

    <p>When Daphne glanced back she saw that Hannah was shaking her head, still curled up in a ball on the grass.</p>

    <p>‘Oh, screw this,’ said Harry. <i>‘Chaotics! The faster we stun them, the faster she’s out of here! We’re going to do this very quickly, even if we take casualties! End truce! <span class="shout">Tunafish!</span>’</i></p>

    <p>Daphne’s political hindbrain had only an instant to admire how Harry’s few words had just made the Chaotics the <em>good</em> guys, and then in almost perfect unison, the Chaotics were plunging their hands into the pockets of their uniforms and drawing out green sunglasses in an unfamiliar style. Not like anything you would wear to the beach, more like goggles for advanced Potions –</p>

    <p>Then Daphne realized what was about to happen and snapped up her other hand to shield her eyes, just as Harry ripped the cloth off the cauldron.</p>

    <p>The fluid that spilled forth as Harry Potter threw the cauldron’s contents into the air was too bright to be seen, too brilliant to be imagined, incandescent like the Sun magnified a dozen times –</p>

    <p>(which was exactly what it was)</p>

    <p>(the sunlight which had been invested to create the acorns, the bright energy that had fuelled a tree rising up from the bare dirt)</p>

    <p>(blazing a searing purple, the colour of the mixed blue and red wavelengths that chlorophyll absorbed)</p>

    <p>(with almost none of the green wavelengths that chlorophyll reflected to create the green colour of leaves)</p>

    <p>(which was the colour of the Chaos Legion’s sunglasses, made to pass through green wavelengths, blocking red and blue, reducing even the most incandescent purple glare to something bearable)</p>

    <p>– the violet light blazed on and on, Daphne tried dropping her arm from her eyes but found that she couldn’t look directly at anything, even the second-hand purple glare was so bright she had to squint; and she had only time to cry one <i>Finite Incantatem,</i> which didn’t work, before a Sleep Hex took her.</p>

    <p>What was left of the battle didn’t take very long after that.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p><span class="shout">‘Now!’</span> bellowed Blaise Zabini, formerly of Sunshine, now commanding a detachment of Chaos Legionnaires. ‘I mean, <span class="shout">Tunafish!’</span> The Slytherin boy’s hand grasped the cloth shielding the cauldron from the triggering touch of daylight, already beginning to move it aside.</p>

    <p><span class="shout">‘Now!’</span> bellowed Dean Thomas, formerly of Chaos, commanding a consignment of Dragon Warriors. <span class="shout">‘Do whatever they do!’</span></p>

    <p>The Chaotics of Zabini’s detachment plunged their hands into their uniform pockets, and came forth bearing green sunglasses –</p>

    <p>– an action almost perfectly mirrored by Dean and the Dragon Warriors, who drew forth green-coloured Potions goggles, and quickly drew the straps over their own heads, even as the Chaotics put on their sunglasses and the violet incandescence blasted forth.</p>

    <p>(As General Malfoy had explained, if Mr&#160;Goyle reported that the Chaos Legion was wearing green-coloured Potions goggles, you didn’t have to know <em>why</em> to Transfigure some copies.)</p>

    <p><span class="shout">‘That’s cheating!’</span> shrieked Blaise Zabini.</p>

    <p><span class="shout">‘That’s technique!’</span> Dean yelled back. <span class="shout">‘Dragons, charge!’</span></p>

    <p>(‘Pardon me,’ the Lady Greengrass said. ‘Could you stop laughing like that, Mr&#160;Quirrell? It’s unnerving.’)</p>

    <p><span class="shout">‘Finite their goggles!’</span> shouted Blaise Zabini, as the two armies ran headlong toward each other through omnipresent eye-searing purple glare. <span class="shout">‘We can still win!’</span></p>

    <p><span class="shout">‘You heard him!’</span> bellowed Dean. <span class="shout">‘Get their glasses!’</span></p>

    <p>Blaise Zabini’s reply to this wasn’t anything articulate.</p>

    <p>That battle went on a lot longer.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p><em>‘Stupefy!’</em> shrieked the Sunshine General.</p>

    <p>Draco didn’t dodge, he didn’t counter, he didn’t have enough energy left for either, all he could do was whip his left hand into position and hope –</p>

    <p>The red stunbolt dissipated again on Draco’s <em>Colloportused</em> glove, which he’d Transfigured and spell-locked to his hand the same as the rest of Dragon Army. It was all that was saving him now, that shield.</p>

    <p>It should have been a time to counter-attack, but Draco could only catch his breath, as the two of them danced backward and forward beneath the trees in the never-ending movements of their duel. Across from him, General Granger was panting hard, the young girl’s face glistening with sweat like dew, her chestnut hair wetted into brown plaits. Her camouflage uniform was stained with damp spots, her shoulders visibly trembling with exhaustion, but her wand was still steel-steady where it stayed level on Draco through all their motion. Her eyes glaring, her cheeks flushed with rage.</p>

    <p class="thought">So, little girl, why’re you pretending to fight like a grown-up today?</p>

    <p>The taunt came to mind, but he didn’t really think he needed Granger any angrier; so instead Draco just said – though he could hear his own voice cracking – ‘Any reason you’re feeling mad at me, Granger?’</p>

    <p>The girl was gasping for breath herself, her own voice wobbling as she spoke. ‘I know what you’re up to,’ said Hermione Granger, her voice rising. ‘I know what you and Snape are up to, Malfoy, and I know who’s behind it!’</p>

    <p>‘Huh?’ Draco said without even thinking about it.</p>

    <p>That only seemed to increase Granger’s fury, and her fingers whitened on the wand she held levelled on him.</p>

    <p>And then Draco got it, and it boiled his own blood in his veins. Even <em>she</em> thought he was secretly plotting against her –</p>

    <p><i class="shout">‘You too?’</i> Draco yelled. <i class="shout">‘I helped you, you bucktoothed bint! You, you, you,’</i> – stuttering past all the Dark curses that came to mind until he found something he could actually cast at her – <i class="shout">‘Densaugeo!’</i></p>

    <p>But Granger flashed and whirled around the Tooth-Lengthening Hex, and then her own wand came around and levelled at almost point-blank range, even as Draco brought up his left hand like a shield, placing the magic-locked glove between himself and whatever she was about to fire, and the Sunshine General’s own voice rose to a shriek audible across the whole battleground –</p>

    <p><i class="shout">‘Alohomora!’</i></p>

    <p>Time should have paused.</p>

    <p>But it didn’t.</p>

    <p>Instead the padlock clicked and fell off the glove.</p>

    <p>Just like that.</p>

    <p>Just like that.</p>

    <p>The screens showed it all very clearly, to the entire watching Hogwarts stadium.</p>

    <p>And the bone-dead-silent hush that fell over every bench in every stand said that everyone understood quite clearly what it meant, that the scion of House Malfoy had just had his magic overcome by a Muggleborn.</p>

    <p>Hermione Granger didn’t pause in her fight, gave no sign that she even knew what she’d done; instead her foot snapped out in a Muggle-style kick that knocked Draco’s wand cleanly out of his hand, his shocked mind and body moving just a little too slowly. Draco dove after his wand, scrabbling frantically on the ground, but from behind him a girl’s cracking voice said <em>‘Somnium!’</em> and Draco Malfoy fell and didn’t rise again.</p>

    <p>There was another moment of frozen silence. The Sunshine General was wobbling on her feet, looking like she might faint.</p>

    <p>Then the Dragon Warriors screamed at the top of their lungs and charged forward to avenge their fallen commander.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Mr&#160;and Mrs&#160;Davis were shaking as they stood up from the comfortable chairs of the faculty Quidditch box; they couldn’t quite clutch each other while walking, but they held hands tightly, pretending hard to be invisible. If they’d been children young enough for accidental magic they probably would’ve spontaneously Disillusioned themselves.</p>

    <p>The elderly Charles Nott said nothing as he stood from his chair. The scarred Lord Jugson said nothing, as he stood from his own chair.</p>

    <p>Lucius Malfoy said nothing as he stood.</p>

    <p>All three of them turned without pause and strode toward the stairwell of the elevated stands, moving in eerie unison like an Auror trio –</p>

    <p>‘Lord Malfoy,’ the Defence Professor said in mild tones. That man was still seated in his own chair, looking upon his parchment-like screens, arms limp at his side, as though for some reason he didn’t feel like moving.</p>

    <p>The white-haired man halted just before reaching the exit archway, and the elderly man and the scarred man halted as well, flanking him. Lord Malfoy’s head turned, too slightly to be any form of acknowledgement, but in the Defence Professor’s direction.</p>

    <p>‘Your son performed exceptionally well today,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘I must confess that I underestimated him. And he has earned his army’s loyalty, as you have witnessed.’ Still very mild, the Defence Professor’s voice. ‘Speaking as your son’s teacher, it is my opinion that he will not benefit if you interfere in his&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Lord Malfoy and his compatriots vanished down the stairs.</p>

    <p>‘A fine try, Quirinus,’ Dumbledore said quietly. The old wizard’s face showed small lines of worry; he hadn’t risen from his own seat either, staring at the parchment screens as though they were still active. ‘Do you think he will listen?’</p>

    <p>The Defence Professor’s shoulders twitched in a slight shrug, the only movement they’d shown since the battle ended.</p>

    <p>‘<em>Well</em>,’ said the Lady Greengrass, as she rose up and cracked her knuckles, stretching, her husband silent beside her. ‘I must say, that was quite … interesting …’</p>

    <p>Amelia Bones had risen from her own cushioned seat without any fuss. ‘Interesting indeed,’ said Director Bones. ‘I do confess, I find myself disturbed by the skill with which those children were fighting one another.’</p>

    <p>‘The skill?’ Lord Greengrass said. ‘Their spells didn’t seem all that impressive to me. Except for Daphne’s, of course.’</p>

    <p>The old witch did not move her eyes from where she was gazing at the Defence Professor’s balding head. ‘The Stunning Hex is not a first-year spell, Lord Greengrass, but that is not the skill I had in mind. They supported each other with those simple spells, they reacted at speed to surprises …’ The Director of the DMLE paused, as though searching for words that a mere civilian could understand. ‘In the midst of battle,’ she said finally, ‘with spells flying in every direction … those children seemed quite at home.’</p>

    <p>‘Indeed, Director Bones,’ said the Defence Professor. ‘Some arts are best begun in youth.’</p>

    <p>The old witch’s eyes narrowed. ‘You are readying them to become a military force, Professor. To what end?’</p>

    <p>‘Now hold on!’ interjected Lord Greengrass. ‘There’s plenty of schools where they teach duelling in first year!’</p>

    <p>‘Duelling?’ said the Defence Professor. From behind it wasn’t visible if the pale face was smiling. ‘That is nothing, Lord Greengrass, to what my students have learned. They have learned not to hesitate in the face of ambushes and greater foes. They have learned to adapt when combat conditions change and change again. They have learned to protect their allies, to protect more those who are more valuable, to abandon pieces which cannot be rescued. They have learned that to survive they must follow orders. Some have even learned a little creativity. Oh, no, Lord Greengrass, <em>these</em> wizards will not hide in their manors and wait to be protected, when the next threat comes. They will know that they know how to fight.’</p>

    <p>Augusta Longbottom loudly clapped her hands together three times.</p>

    <hr/>

    </div>
</body>
</html>