<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<!--?sxml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?--><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
<div class="calibre1">
    <p>Thursday.</p>

    <p>If you wanted to be specific, 3:32pm on Thursday afternoon.</p>

    <p>Harry and all the other boys in the first year were outside on a grassy field with Madam Hooch, standing next to the Hogwarts supply of broomsticks. The girls would be learning to fly separately. Apparently, for some reason, girls didn’t want to learn how to fly on broomsticks in the presence of boys.</p>

    <p>Harry had been a little wobbly all day long. He just couldn’t seem to stop wondering how that <em>particular</em> stable time loop had been selected out of what was, in retrospect, a rather large space of possibilities.</p>

    <p>Also: seriously, <em>broomsticks?</em> He was going to fly on, basically, a line segment? Wasn’t that pretty much the single most unstable shape you could possibly find, short of attempting to hold on to a point marble? Who’d selected <em>that</em> design for a flying device, out of all the possibilities? Harry had been hoping that it was just a figure of speech, but no, they were standing in front of what looked for all the world like ordinary wooden kitchen broomsticks. Had someone just got stuck on the idea of broomsticks and failed to consider anything else? It had to be. There was no way that the <em>optimal</em> designs for cleaning kitchens and flying would happen to coincide if you worked them out from scratch.</p>

    <p>It was a clear day with a bright blue sky and a brilliant sun that was just begging to get in your eyes and make it impossible to see, if you were trying to fly around the sky. The ground was nice and dry, smelling positively baked, and somehow felt very, very hard under Harry’s shoes.</p>

    <p>Harry kept reminding himself that the lowest common denominator of eleven-year-olds was expected to learn this and it couldn’t be that hard.</p>

    <p>‘Stick out your right hand over the broom, or left hand if you’re left-handed,’ called Madam Hooch. ‘And say, <i class="shout">Up!</i>’</p>

    <p><i class="shout">‘Up!’</i> everyone shouted.</p>

    <p>The broomstick leapt eagerly into Harry’s hand.</p>

    <p>Which put him at the head of the class, for once. Apparently saying <i class="shout">‘Up!’</i> was a lot more difficult than it looked, and most of the broomsticks were rolling around on the ground or trying to inch away from their would-be riders.</p>

    <p>(Of course Harry would have bet money that Hermione had done at least as well when it came her own turn to try, earlier in the day. There couldn’t possibly be anything <i>he</i> could master on the first try which would baffle Hermione, and if there <i>was</i> and it turned out to be <i>broomstick riding</i> instead of anything intellectual, Harry would just die.)</p>

    <p>It took a while for everyone to get a broomstick in front of them. Madam Hooch showed them how to mount and then walked around the field, correcting grips and stances. Apparently even among the few children who’d been allowed to fly at home, they hadn’t been taught to do it correctly.</p>

    <p>Madam Hooch surveyed the field of boys, and nodded. ‘Now, when I blow my whistle, you kick off from the ground, hard.’</p>

    <p>Harry swallowed hard, trying to quell the queasy feeling in his stomach.</p>

    <p>‘Keep your brooms steady, rise a few feet, and then come straight back down by leaning forwards slightly. On my whistle – three – two&#160;–’</p>

    <p>One of the brooms shot skyward, accompanied by a young boy’s screams – of horror, not delight. The boy was spinning at an awful rate as he ascended, they only got glimpses of his white face –</p>

    <p>As though in slow motion, Harry was leaping back off his own broomstick and scrabbling for his wand, though he didn’t really know what he planned to do with it, he’d had exactly two sessions of Charms and the last one <em>had</em> been the Hover Charm but Harry had only been able to cast the spell successfully one time out of three and he certainly couldn’t levitate whole people –</p>

    <p class="thought">If there is any hidden power in me, let it reveal itself <em>now</em>!</p>

    <p>‘Come back, boy!’ shouted Madam Hooch (which had to be the most unhelpful instruction imaginable for dealing with an out-of-control broomstick, from a <i>flying instructor</i>, and a fully automatic section of Harry’s brain added Madam Hooch to his tally of fools).</p>

    <p>And the boy was thrown off the broomstick.</p>

    <p>He seemed to move very slowly through the air, at first.</p>

    <p><i>‘Wingardium Leviosa!’</i> screamed Harry.</p>

    <p>The spell failed. He could feel it fail.</p>

    <p>There was a <em>thud</em> and a distant cracking sound, and the boy lay face down on the grass in a heap.</p>

    <p>Harry sheathed his wand and raced forwards at full speed. He arrived at the boy’s side at the same time as Madam Hooch, and Harry reached into his pouch and tried to recall oh god what was the name never mind he’d just try ‘Healer’s Pack!’ and it popped up into his hand and –</p>

    <p>‘Broken wrist,’ Madam Hooch said. ‘Calm down, boy, he just has a broken wrist!’</p>

    <p>There was a sort of mental lurch as Harry’s mind snapped out of Panic Mode.</p>

    <p>The Emergency Healing Pack Plus lay open in front of him, and there was a syringe of liquid fire in Harry’s hand, which would have kept the boy’s brain oxygenated if he’d managed to snap his neck.</p>

    <p>‘Ah …’ Harry said in a rather wavering sort of voice. His heart was pounding so loudly that he almost couldn’t hear himself panting for breath. ‘Broken bone … right … Setting String?’</p>

    <p>‘That’s for emergencies only,’ snapped Madam Hooch. ‘Put it away, he’s fine.’ She leaned over the boy, offering him a hand. ‘Come on, boy, it’s all right, up you get!’</p>

    <p>‘You’re not seriously going to make him ride the broomstick again?’ Harry said in horror.</p>

    <p>Madam Hooch sent Harry a glare. ‘Of course not!’ She pulled the boy to his feet using his good arm – Harry saw with a shock that it was Neville Longbottom <em>again,</em> what was <em>with</em> him? – and she turned to all the watching children. ‘None of you is to move while I take this boy to the hospital wing! You leave those brooms where they are or you’ll be out of Hogwarts before you can say “Quidditch.” Come on, dear.’</p>

    <p>And Madam Hooch walked off with Neville, who was clutching his wrist and trying to control his sniffles.</p>

    <p>When they were out of earshot, one of the Slytherins started giggling.</p>

    <p>That set off the others.</p>

    <p>Harry turned and looked at them. It seemed like a good time to memorise some faces.</p>

    <p>And Harry saw that Draco was strolling towards him, accompanied by Mr&#160;Crabbe and Mr&#160;Goyle. Mr&#160;Crabbe wasn’t smiling. Mr&#160;Goyle decidedly was. Draco himself was wearing a very controlled face that twitched occasionally, from which Harry inferred that Draco thought it was hilarious but saw no political advantage to be gained by laughing about it now instead of in the Slytherin dungeons afterwards.</p>

    <p>‘Well, Potter,’ Draco said in a low voice that didn’t carry, still with that very controlled face that was twitching occasionally, ‘Just wanted to say, when you take advantage of emergencies to demonstrate leadership, you want to look like you’re in total control of the situation, rather than, say, going into a complete panic.’ Mr&#160;Goyle giggled, and Draco shot him a quelling look. ‘But you probably scored a few points anyway. You need any help stowing that healer’s kit?’</p>

    <p>Harry turned to look at the Healing Pack, which got his own face turned away from Draco. ‘I think I’m fine,’ Harry said. He put the syringe back in its place, redid the latches, and stood up.</p>

    <p>Ernie Macmillan arrived just as Harry was feeding the pack back into his mokeskin pouch.</p>

    <p>‘Thank you, Harry Potter, on behalf of Hufflepuff,’ Ernie Macmillan said formally. ‘It was a good try and a good thought.’</p>

    <p>‘A good thought indeed,’ drawled Draco. ‘Why didn’t anyone in Hufflepuff have their wands out? Maybe if you’d <em>all</em> helped instead of just Potter, you could’ve caught him. I thought Hufflepuffs were supposed to stick together?’</p>

    <p>Ernie looked like he was torn between getting angry and wanting to die of shame. ‘We didn’t think of it in time&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Ah,’ said Draco, ‘didn’t <em>think</em> of it, I guess that’s why it’s better to have one Ravenclaw as a friend than all of Hufflepuff.’</p>

    <p>Oh, hell, how was Harry supposed to juggle this one … ‘You’re not helping,’ Harry said in a mild tone. Hoping Draco would interpret that as <i>you’re interfering with my plans, please shut up.</i></p>

    <p>‘Hey, what’s this?’ said Mr&#160;Goyle. He stooped to the grass and picked up something around the size of a large marble, a glass ball that seemed to be filled with a swirling white mist.</p>

    <p>Ernie blinked. ‘Neville’s Remembrall!’</p>

    <p>‘What’s a Remembrall?’ asked Harry.</p>

    <p>‘It turns red if you’ve forgotten something,’ Ernie said. ‘It doesn’t tell you what you forgot, though. Give it here, please, and I’ll hand it back to Neville later.’ Ernie held out his hand.</p>

    <p>A sudden grin flashed across Mr&#160;Goyle’s face and he spun around and raced away.</p>

    <p>Ernie stood still for a moment in surprise, and then shouted ‘Hey!’ and ran after Mr&#160;Goyle.</p>

    <p>And Mr&#160;Goyle grabbed a broomstick, hopped on with one smooth motion and took to the air.</p>

    <p>Harry’s jaw dropped. Hadn’t Madam Hooch said that would get him <em>expelled?</em></p>

    <p><i>‘That idiot!’</i> Draco hissed. He opened his mouth to shout –</p>

    <p><i>‘Hey!’</i> shouted Ernie. ‘That’s Neville’s! <i>Give it back!</i>’</p>

    <p>The Slytherins started cheering and hooting.</p>

    <p>Draco’s mouth snapped shut. Harry caught the sudden look of indecision on his face.</p>

    <p>‘Draco,’ Harry said in a low tone, ‘if you don’t order that idiot back on the ground, the teacher’s going to get back and&#160;–’</p>

    <p><i>‘Come and get it, Hufflepuffle!’</i> shouted Mr&#160;Goyle, and a great cheer went up from the Slytherins.</p>

    <p>‘I <em>can’t!</em>’ whispered Draco. ‘Everyone in Slytherin would think I’m <em>weak!</em>’</p>

    <p>‘And if Mr&#160;Goyle gets expelled,’ hissed Harry, ‘your <em>father</em> is going to think you’re a <em>moron!</em>’</p>

    <p>Draco’s face twisted in agony.</p>

    <p>At that moment –</p>

    <p>‘Hey, <em>Slytherslime</em>,’ shouted Ernie, ‘didn’t anyone ever tell you that Hufflepuffs stick together? <i>Wands out, Hufflepuff!</i>’</p>

    <p>And there were suddenly a whole lot of wands pointed in Mr&#160;Goyle’s direction.</p>

    <p>Three seconds later –</p>

    <p><i>‘Wands out, Slytherin!’</i> said around five different Slytherins.</p>

    <p>And there were a whole lot of wands pointed in Hufflepuff’s direction.</p>

    <p>Two seconds later –</p>

    <p><i>‘Wands out, Gryffindor!’</i></p>

    <p><i>‘Do something, Potter!’</i> whispered Draco. <i>‘I can’t be the one to stop this it has to be you! I’ll owe you a favour just think of something aren’t you supposed to be brilliant?’</i></p>

    <p>In around five and a half seconds, realised Harry, someone was going to cast the Sumerian Simple Strike Hex and by the time it was over and the teachers were done expelling people the only boys left in his year would be Ravenclaws.</p>

    <p><i class="shout">‘Wands out, Ravenclaw!’</i> shouted Michael Corner who was apparently feeling left out of the disaster.</p>

    <p><i class="shout">‘Gregory Goyle!’</i> screamed Harry. <i class="shout">‘I challenge you to a contest for possession of Neville’s Remembrall!’</i></p>

    <p>There was a sudden pause.</p>

    <p>‘Oh, really?’ said Draco in the loudest drawl Harry had ever heard. ‘That sounds interesting. What sort of contest, Potter?’</p>

    <p>Er …</p>

    <p>‘Contest’ had been as far as Harry’s inspiration had got. What sort of contest, he couldn’t say ‘chess’ because Draco wouldn’t be able to accept without it looking strange, he couldn’t say ‘arm-wrestling’ because Mr&#160;Goyle would crush him –</p>

    <p>‘How about this?’ Harry said loudly. ‘Gregory Goyle and I stand apart from each other, and no one else is allowed to come near either of us. We don’t use our wands and neither does anyone else. I don’t move from where I’m standing, and neither does he. And if I can get my hands on Neville’s Remembrall, then Gregory Goyle relinquishes all claim to that Remembrall he’s holding and gives it to me.’</p>

    <p>There was another pause as people’s looks of relief transmuted to confusion.</p>

    <p>‘Hah, Potter!’ said Draco loudly. ‘I’d like to see you do <em>that!</em> Mr&#160;Goyle accepts!’</p>

    <p>‘It’s on!’ said Harry.</p>

    <p>‘Potter, <em>what?</em>’ whispered Draco, which he somehow did without moving his lips.</p>

    <p>Harry didn’t know how to answer without moving his.</p>

    <p>People were putting their wands away, and Mr&#160;Goyle swooped gracefully to the ground, looking rather confused. Some Hufflepuffs started over towards Mr&#160;Goyle, but Harry shot them a desperately pleading look and they backed off.</p>

    <p>Harry walked toward Mr&#160;Goyle and stopped when he was a few paces away, far enough apart that they couldn’t reach each other.</p>

    <p>Slowly, deliberately, Harry sheathed his wand.</p>

    <p>Everyone else backed away.</p>

    <p>Harry swallowed. He knew in broad outline what he <em>wanted</em> to do, but it had to be done in such a way that no one understood <em>what</em> he’d done –</p>

    <p>‘All right,’ Harry said loudly. ‘And now …’ He took a deep breath and raised one hand, fingers ready to snap. There were gasps from anyone who’d heard about the pies, which was practically everyone. <i>‘I call upon the insanity of Hogwarts! Happy happy boom boom swamp swamp swamp!’</i> And Harry snapped his fingers.</p>

    <p>A lot of people flinched.</p>

    <p>And nothing happened.</p>

    <p>Harry let the silence stretch on for a while, developing, until …</p>

    <p>‘Um,’ someone said. ‘Is that it?’</p>

    <p>Harry looked at the boy who’d spoken. ‘Look in front of you. You see that patch of ground that looks barren, without any grass on it?’</p>

    <p>‘Um, yeah,’ said the boy, a Gryffindor (Dean something?).</p>

    <p>‘Dig it up.’</p>

    <p>Now Harry was getting a lot of strange looks.</p>

    <p>‘Er, why?’ said Dean something.</p>

    <p>‘Just do it,’ said Terry Boot in a weary voice. ‘No point asking why, trust me on this one.’</p>

    <p>Dean something knelt down and began to scoop away dirt.</p>

    <p>After a minute or so, Dean stood up again. ‘There’s nothing there,’ Dean said.</p>

    <p>Huh. Harry had been planning to go back in time and bury a treasure map that would lead to another treasure map that would lead to Neville’s Remembrall which he would put there after getting it back from Mr&#160;Goyle …</p>

    <p>Then Harry realised there was a much simpler way which didn’t threaten the secret of Time-Turners quite as much.</p>

    <p>‘Thanks, Dean!’ Harry said loudly. ‘Ernie, would you look around on the ground where Neville fell and see if you can find Neville’s Remembrall?’</p>

    <p>People looked even more confused.</p>

    <p>‘Just do it,’ said Terry Boot. ‘He’ll keep trying until something works, and the scary thing is that&#160;–’</p>

    <p><em>‘Merlin!’</em> gasped Ernie. He was holding up Neville’s Remembrall. ‘It’s <em>here!</em> Right where he fell!’</p>

    <p><em>‘What?’</em> cried Mr&#160;Goyle. He looked down and saw …</p>

    <p>… that he was still holding Neville’s Remembrall.</p>

    <p>There was a rather long pause.</p>

    <p>‘Er,’ said Dean something, ‘that’s not possible, is it?’</p>

    <p>‘It’s a plot hole,’ said Harry. ‘I made myself weird enough to distract the universe for a moment and it forgot that Goyle had already picked up the Remembrall.’</p>

    <p>‘No, wait, I mean, that’s <em>totally</em> not possible&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Excuse me, are we all standing around here waiting to go flying on broomsticks? Yes we are. So shut up. Anyway, once I get my hands on Neville’s Remembrall, the contest is over and Gregory Goyle has to relinquish all claim to the Remembrall he’s holding and give it to me. Those were the terms, remember?’ Harry stretched out a hand and beckoned Ernie. ‘Just roll it over here, since no one’s supposed to get close to me, okay?’</p>

    <p>‘Hold on!’ shouted a Slytherin – Blaise Zabini, Harry wasn’t likely to forget that name. ‘How do we know that’s Neville’s Remembrall? You could’ve just dropped <em>another</em> Remembrall there&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘The Slytherin is strong with this one,’ Harry said, smiling. ‘But you have my word that the one Ernie’s holding is Neville’s. No comment about the one Gregory Goyle’s holding.’</p>

    <p>Zabini spun to Draco. ‘<em>Malfoy!</em> You’re not just going to let him get away with that&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Shut up, you,’ rumbled Mr&#160;Crabbe, standing behind Draco. ‘Mr&#160;Malfoy doesn’t need <em>you</em> to tell him what to do!’</p>

    <p><em>Good</em> minion.</p>

    <p>‘My bet was with Draco, of the Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy,’ Harry said. ‘Not with you, Zabini. I have done what Mr&#160;Malfoy said he’d like to see me do, and as for the judgement of the bet, I leave that up to Mr&#160;Malfoy.’ Harry inclined his head towards Draco and raised his eyebrows slightly. That ought to allow Draco to save enough face.</p>

    <p>There was a pause.</p>

    <p>‘You promise that actually <em>is</em> Neville’s Remembrall?’ Draco said.</p>

    <p>‘Yes,’ Harry said. ‘That’s the one that’ll go back to Neville and it was his originally. And the one Gregory Goyle’s holding goes to me.’</p>

    <p>Draco nodded, looking decisive. ‘I won’t question the word of the Noble House of Potter, then, no matter how strange that all was. And the Noble and Most Ancient House of Malfoy keeps its word as well. Mr&#160;Goyle, give that to Mr&#160;Potter&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Hey!’ Zabini said. ‘He hasn’t won <em>yet</em>, he hasn’t got his hands on&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Catch, Harry!’ said Ernie, and he tossed the Remembrall.</p>

    <p>Harry easily snapped the Remembrall out of the air, he’d always had good reflexes that way. ‘There,’ said Harry, ‘I win …’</p>

    <p>Harry trailed off. All conversation stopped.</p>

    <p>The Remembrall was glowing bright red in his hand, blazing like a miniature sun that cast shadows on the ground in broad daylight.</p>

    <hr/>


</div>
</body>
</html>