<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body><div class="calibre1">
    <p>The trunk shop was more richly appointed than any other shop Harry had visited; the curtains were lush and delicately patterned, the floor and walls of stained and polished wood, and the trunks occupied places of honour on polished ivory platforms. The salesman was dressed in robes of finery only a cut below those of Lucius Malfoy, and spoke with exquisite, oily politeness to both Harry and Professor McGonagall.</p>

    <p>Harry had asked his questions, and had gravitated to a trunk of heavy-looking wood, not polished but warm and solid, carved with the pattern of a guardian dragon whose eyes shifted to look at anyone nearing it. A trunk charmed to be light, to shrink on command, to sprout small clawed tentacles from its bottom and squirm after its owner. A trunk with two drawers on each of four sides that each slid out to reveal compartments as deep as the whole trunk. A lid with four locks each of which would reveal a different space inside. And – this was the important part – a handle on the bottom which slid out a frame containing a staircase leading down into a small, lighted room that would hold, Harry estimated, around twelve bookcases.</p>

    <p>If they made luggage like this, Harry didn’t know why anyone bothered owning a house.</p>

    <p>One hundred and eight golden Galleons. That was the price of a good trunk, lightly used. At around fifty British pounds to the Galleon, that was enough to buy a second-hand car. It would be more expensive than everything else Harry had ever bought in his whole life all put together.</p>

    <p>Ninety-seven Galleons. That was how much was left in the bag of gold Harry had been allowed to take out of Gringotts.</p>

    <p>Professor McGonagall wore a look of chagrin upon her face. After a long day’s shopping she hadn’t needed to ask Harry how much gold was left in the bag, after the salesman quoted his price, which meant the Professor could do good mental arithmetic without pen and paper. Once again, Harry reminded himself that <i>scientifically illiterate</i> was not at all the same thing as <em>stupid.</em></p>

    <p>‘I’m sorry, young man,’ said Professor McGonagall. ‘This is entirely my fault. I would offer to take you back to Gringotts, but the bank will be closed for all but emergency services now.’</p>

    <p>Harry looked at her, wondering …</p>

    <p>‘Well,’ sighed Professor McGonagall, as she swung on one heel, ‘we may as well go, I suppose.’</p>

    <p>… she <em>hadn’t</em> lost it completely when a child had dared defy her. She hadn’t been happy, but she had <em>thought</em> instead of exploding in fury. It might have just been that there was an immortal Dark Lord to fight – that she had needed Harry’s goodwill. But most adults wouldn’t have been capable of thinking even that much; wouldn’t consider <i>future consequences</i> at all, if someone lower in status had refused to obey them …</p>

    <p>‘Professor?’ Harry said.</p>

    <p>The witch turned back and looked at him.</p>

    <p>Harry took a deep breath. He needed to be a little angry for what he wanted to try now, there was no way he’d have the courage to do it otherwise. <i>She didn’t listen to me,</i> he thought to himself, <i>I would have taken more gold but she didn’t want to listen …</i> Focusing his entire world on McGonagall and the need to bend this conversation to his will, he spoke.</p>

    <p>‘Professor, you thought one hundred Galleons would be more than enough for a trunk. That’s why you didn’t bother warning me before it went down to ninety-seven. Which is just the sort of thing the research studies show – that’s what happens when people think they’re leaving themselves a <em>little</em> error margin. They’re not pessimistic enough. If it’d been up to me, I’d have taken <i>two hundred</i> Galleons just to be sure. There was plenty of money in that vault, and I could have put back any extra later. But I thought you wouldn’t let me do it. I thought you’d be angry at me just for asking. Was I wrong?’</p>

    <p>‘I suppose I must confess that you are right,’ said Professor McGonagall. ‘But, young man&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘That sort of thing is the reason why I have trouble trusting adults.’ Somehow Harry kept his voice steady. ‘Because they get angry if you even <i>try</i> to reason with them. To them it’s defiance and insolence and a challenge to their higher tribal status. If you try to talk to them they get <i>angry.</i> So if I had anything <i>really important</i> to do, I wouldn’t be able to trust you. Even if you listened with deep concern to whatever I said – because that’s also part of the <em>role</em> of someone playing a concerned adult – you’d never change your actions, you wouldn’t actually behave differently, because of anything I said.’</p>

    <p>The salesman was watching them both with unabashed fascination.</p>

    <p>‘I can understand your point of view,’ Professor McGonagall said eventually. ‘If I sometimes seem too strict, please remember that I have served as Head of Gryffindor House for what feels like several thousand years.’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded and continued. ‘So – suppose I had a way to get more Galleons from my vault <em>without</em> us going back to Gringotts, but it involved me violating the role of an obedient child. Would I be able to trust you with that, even though you’d have to step outside your own role as Professor McGonagall to take advantage of it?’</p>

    <p><em>‘What?’</em> said Professor McGonagall.</p>

    <p>‘To put it another way, if I could make today have happened differently, so that we <em>didn’t</em> take too little money with us, would that be all right even though it would involve a child being insolent to an adult in retrospect?’</p>

    <p>‘I … suppose …’ the witch said, looking quite puzzled.</p>

    <p>Harry took out the mokeskin pouch, and said, ‘Eleven Galleons originally from my family vault.’</p>

    <p>And there was gold in Harry’s hand.</p>

    <p>For a moment Professor McGonagall’s mouth gaped wide, then her jaw snapped shut and her eyes narrowed and the witch bit out, ‘<em>Where</em> did you get that&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘From my family vault, like I said.’</p>

    <p><em>‘How?’</em></p>

    <p>‘Magic.’</p>

    <p>‘That’s hardly an answer!’ snapped Professor McGonagall, and then stopped, blinking.</p>

    <p>‘No, it isn’t, is it? I <em>ought</em> to claim that it’s because I experimentally discovered the true secrets of how the pouch works and that it can actually retrieve objects from anywhere, not just its own inside, if you phrase the request correctly. But actually it’s from when I fell into that pile of gold before and I shoved some Galleons into my pocket. Anyone who understands pessimism knows that money is something you might need quickly and without much warning. So now are you angry at me for defying your authority? Or glad that we succeeded in our important mission?’</p>

    <p>The salesman’s eyes were wide like saucers.</p>

    <p>And the tall witch stood there, silent.</p>

    <p>‘Discipline at Hogwarts <em>must</em> be enforced,’ she said after almost a full minute. ‘For the sake of <em>all</em> the students. And that <em>must</em> include courtesy and obedience from you to <em>all</em> professors.’</p>

    <p>‘I understand, Professor McGonagall.’</p>

    <p>‘Good. Now let us buy that trunk and go home.’</p>

    <p>Harry felt like throwing up, or cheering, or fainting, or <em>something</em>. That was the first time his careful reasoning had ever worked on <em>anyone</em>. Maybe because it was also the first time he had something really serious that an adult needed from him, but still –</p>

    <p>Minerva McGonagall, +1 point.</p>

    <p>Harry bowed, and gave the bag of gold and the extra eleven Galleons into McGonagall’s hands. ‘Thank you very much, Professor. Can you finish up the purchase for me? I’ve got to visit the lavatory.’</p>

    <p>The salesman, unctuous once more, pointed toward a door set into the wall with a gold-handled knob. As Harry started to walk away, he heard the salesman ask in his oily voice, ‘May I inquire as to who that was, Madam McGonagall? I take it he is Slytherin – third-year, perhaps? – and from a prominent family, but I did not recognise&#160;–’</p>

    <p>The slam of the lavatory door cut off his words, and after Harry had identified the lock and pressed it into place, he grabbed the magical self-cleaning towel and, with shaky hands, wiped moisture off his forehead. Harry’s entire body was sheathed in sweat which had soaked clear through his Muggle clothing, though at least it didn’t show through the robes.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>The Sun was setting and it was very late indeed, by the time they stood again in the courtyard of the Leaky Cauldron, the silent leaf-dusted interface between magical Britain’s Diagon Alley and the entire Muggle world. (That was one <em>awfully</em> decoupled economy … ) Harry was to go to a phone box and call his father, once he was on the other side. He didn’t need to worry about his luggage being stolen, apparently. His trunk had the status of a major magical item, something that most Muggles wouldn’t notice; that was part of what you could get in the wizarding world, if you were willing to pay the price of a second-hand car.</p>

    <p>‘So here we part ways, for a time,’ Professor McGonagall said. She shook her head in wonderment. ‘This has been the strangest day of my life for … many a year. Since the day I learned that a child had defeated You-Know-Who. I wonder now, looking back, if that was the last reasonable day of the world.’</p>

    <p>Oh, like <i>she</i> had anything to complain about. <i>You think your day was surreal? Try mine.</i></p>

    <p>‘I was very impressed with you today,’ Harry said to her. ‘I should have remembered to compliment you out loud, I was awarding you points in my head and everything.’</p>

    <p>‘Thank you, Mr&#160;Potter,’ said Professor McGonagall. ‘If you had already been sorted into a House I would have deducted so many points that your grandchildren would still be losing the House Cup.’</p>

    <p>‘Thank <em>you</em>, Professor.’ It was probably too early to call her Minnie.</p>

    <p>This woman might well be the sanest adult Harry had ever met, despite her lack of scientific background. Harry was even considering offering her the number-two position in whatever group he formed to fight the Dark Lord, though he wasn’t silly enough to say that out loud. <i>Now what would be a good name for that … ? The Death Eater Eaters?</i></p>

    <p>‘I’ll see you again soon, when school starts,’ Professor McGonagall said. ‘And, Mr&#160;Potter, about your wand&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘I know what you’re going to ask,’ Harry said. He took out his precious wand and, with a deep twinge of inner pain, flipped it over in his hand, presenting her with the handle. ‘Take it. I hadn’t planned to do anything, not a single thing, but I don’t want you to have nightmares about me blowing up my house.’</p>

    <p>Professor McGonagall shook her head rapidly. ‘Oh no, Mr&#160;Potter! That isn’t done. I only meant to warn you not to <em>use</em> your wand at home, since the Ministry can detect under-age magic and it is prohibited without supervision.’</p>

    <p>‘Ah,’ Harry said. ‘That sounds like a very sensible rule. I’m glad to see the wizarding world takes that sort of thing seriously.’</p>

    <p>Professor McGonagall peered hard at him. ‘You really mean that.’</p>

    <p>‘Yes,’ Harry said. ‘I get it. Magic is dangerous and the rules are there for good reasons. Certain other matters are also dangerous. I get that too. Remember that I am not stupid.’</p>

    <p>‘I am unlikely ever to forget it. Thank you, Harry, that does make me feel better about entrusting you with certain things. Goodbye for now.’</p>

    <p>Harry turned to go, into the Leaky Cauldron and out towards the Muggle world.</p>

    <p>As his hand touched the back door’s handle, he heard a last whisper from behind him.</p>

    <p>‘Hermione Granger.’</p>

    <p>‘What?’ Harry said, his hand still on the door.</p>

    <p>‘Look for a first-year girl named Hermione Granger on the train to Hogwarts.’</p>

    <p>‘Who is she?’</p>

    <p>There was no answer, and when Harry turned around, Professor McGonagall was gone.</p>

    <hr/>

    <p>Headmaster Albus Dumbledore leaned forward over his desk. His twinkling eyes peered out at Minerva. ‘So, my dear, how did you find Harry?’</p>

    <p>Minerva opened her mouth. Then she closed her mouth. Then she opened her mouth again. No words came out.</p>

    <p>‘I see,’ Albus said gravely. ‘Thank you for your report, Minerva. You may go.’</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>