<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body><div class="calibre1">
    <p>It still hadn’t answered the most puzzling question, and Harry wasn’t sure that asking it would be wise. If, somehow, Lord Voldemort had managed <i>not to think of it,</i> and then Professor Quirrell had still managed not to think of it during nine years of contemplation, then it wasn’t wise to say … or maybe it was; the agonies of the Wizarding War had not been good for Britain.</p>

    <p>Harry decided, and spoke. ‘One thing that did confuse me was why the Wizarding War lasted so long,’ Harry ventured. ‘I mean, maybe I’m underestimating the difficulties that were facing Lord Voldemort&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘You want to know why I did not Imperius some of the stronger wizards who could Imperius others, slay the very strongest wizards who could have resisted my Imperius, and take over the Ministry in, oh, perhaps three days.’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded silently.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell looked contemplative; his hand was sifting grass clippings into the cauldron, bit by bit. That ingredient, if Harry remembered correctly, was something like four-fifths towards the end of the recipe.</p>

    <p>‘I wondered that myself,’ the Defence Professor said finally, ‘when I heard Trelawney’s prophecy from Snape, and I contemplated the past as well as the future. If you had asked my past self why he did not use the Imperius, he would have spoken of the need to be <em>seen</em> to rule, to openly command the Ministry bureaucracy, before it was time to turn his eyes outward to other countries. He would have remarked on how a quick and silent victory might bring challenges later. He would have remarked on the obstacle presented by Dumbledore and his incredible defensive prowess. And he would have had similar excuses for every other quick path he considered. Somehow it was never the right time to bring my plans to their final phase, there was always one more thing to do first. Then I heard the prophecy and I <em>knew</em> that it was time, for Time itself was taking notice of me. That the span for hesitation was done. And I looked back, and realised somehow this had been going on for years. I think …’ The occasional bit of grass was still dropping down from his hand, but Professor Quirrell did not seem to pay it any mind. ‘I thought, when I was contemplating my past beneath the starlight, that I had become too accustomed to playing against Dumbledore. Dumbledore was intelligent, he tried diligently to be cunning, he did not wait for me to strike but presented me with surprises. He made bizarre moves that played out in fascinating and unpredictable ways. In retrospect, there were many obvious plans for destroying Dumbledore; but I think some part of me did not want to go back to playing solitaire instead of chess. It was when I had the prospect of creating another Tom Riddle to plot against, someone even more worthy than Dumbledore, that I was first willing to contemplate the end of my war. Yes, in retrospect that sounds stupid, but sometimes our emotions are more foolish than we can bring our reason to admit. I would never have espoused such a policy deliberately. It would have violated Rules Nine, Sixteen, Twenty, and Twenty-two and that is too much even if you are enjoying yourself. But to repeatedly decide that there was one more thing left to be done, one more advantage left to be gained, one more piece that I simply <em>had</em> to move into place, before abandoning an enjoyable time in my life and moving on to the more tedious rule of Britain … well, even I am not immune to a mistake like that, if I do not realize that I am making it.’</p>

    <p>And that was when Harry knew what was going to happen at the end of this, after the Philosopher’s Stone had been retrieved.</p>

    <p>At the end of this, Professor Quirrell was going to kill him.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell didn’t want to kill him. It was possible that Harry was the only person in the world against whom Professor Quirrell <em>wouldn’t</em> be able to use a Killing Curse. But Professor Quirrell thought he had to do it, for whatever reason.</p>

    <p>That was why Professor Quirrell had decided that it was necessary to brew the <i>potion of effulgence</i> the long way. That was why Professor Quirrell had been so easily negotiated into answering these questions, into finally talking about his life with someone who might understand. Just like Lord Voldemort had delayed the end of the Wizarding War to play longer against Dumbledore.</p>

    <p>Harry couldn’t exactly recall what Professor Quirrell had said earlier about not killing Harry. It hadn’t been anything straightforward along the lines of <i class="q">I am absolutely not planning to kill you in any way, shape, or form unless you positively insist on doing something stupid</i>. Harry had been reluctant himself to push the promise too far and insist on unambiguous terms because Harry had already known that he would need to neutralize Lord Voldemort and had expected more precise language to reveal that fact, if they tried to exchange truly binding promises. So there certainly would have been loopholes, whatever had been said.</p>

    <p>There was no particular shock to the realization, just an increased sense of urgency; some part of Harry had already known this, and had simply been waiting for an excuse to make it known to deliberation. There had been too many things said here that Professor Quirrell would not reveal to anyone with an expected lifespan measured in more than hours. The overwhelming isolation and loneliness of the life Professor Quirrell had described might explain why he was willing to violate his Rules and talk with Harry, <em>given</em> that Harry was going to die soon and that the world did not actually work like a play where the villain disclosing his plans would always fail to kill the hero afterwards. But Harry’s death certainly had to be in those future plans somewhere.</p>

    <p>Harry swallowed, controlling his breathing. Professor Quirrell had just added a tuft of horsehair to the <i>potion of effulgence,</i> and that was very late in the potion, if Harry remembered correctly. There weren’t many bellflowers left in the heap to be added, either.</p>

    <p>It was probably time to stop worrying so much about risk and play this conversation less conservatively, all things considered.</p>

    <p>‘If I point out one of Lord Voldemort’s mistakes,’ Harry said, ‘does he punish me for it?’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell lifted his eyebrows. ‘Not if the mistake is a real one. I do not suggest that you moralise at me. But I would not curse the bearer of bad news, nor the subordinate who makes an honest attempt to point out a problem. Even as Lord Voldemort I could never bring myself to that stupidity. Of course, there were some fools who mistook my policy for weakness, who tried to thrust themselves forward by pushing me down in their public counsel, thinking me obliged to tolerate it as criticism.’ Professor Quirrell smiled reminiscently. ‘The Death Eaters were better off without them, and I do not advise you make the same mistake.’</p>

    <p>Harry nodded, a slight shiver going through him. ‘Um, when you told me about what happened in Godric’s Hollow, on Halloween night, in 1981 I mean, um … I thought I saw another flaw in your reasoning. A way you could have avoided disaster. But, um, I think you have a blind spot, a class of strategies you don’t consider, so you didn’t see it even afterwards&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘I hope you are not about to say anything stupid along the lines of “don’t try to kill people”,’ Professor Quirrell said. ‘I shall be unhappy if that is the case.’</p>

    <p><i class="parsel">‘Not value<span class="ps">s</span> difference. True mi<span class="ps">s</span>take, given your goal<span class="ps">s</span>. Will you hurt me, if I act the part of the teacher toward you, and teach le<span class="ps">ss</span>on? Or if mi<span class="ps">s</span>take is <span class="ps">s</span>imple and obviou<span class="ps">ss</span>, and make<span class="ps">s</span> you feel <span class="ps">s</span>tupid?’</i></p>

    <p><i class="parsel">‘No,’</i> hissed Professor Quirrell. <i class="parsel">‘Not if le<span class="ps">ss</span>on i<span class="ps">s</span> true.’</i></p>

    <p>Harry swallowed. ‘Um. Why didn’t you test the horcrux system before you actually had to use it?’</p>

    <p>‘Test it?’ said Professor Quirrell. He looked up from the brewing potion, and indignation came into his voice. ‘What do you mean, <i>test it?</i>’</p>

    <p>‘Why didn’t you test if the horcrux system was working correctly, before you needed it on Halloween?’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell looked disgusted. ‘You ridiculous – I didn’t want to <em>die,</em> Mr&#160;Potter, and that was the only way to test my great creation! What good would it have done to risk my life sooner rather than later? How would I have been better off?’</p>

    <p>Harry swallowed a lump in his throat. ‘<i class="parsel">There wass way for you to tesst your horcrux ssysstem without dying.</i> The general lesson is important. Do you see it now?’</p>

    <p>‘No,’ Professor Quirrell said after a while. The Defence Professor gently crumbled one of the last bellflowers together with a strand of long blonde hair and then dropped it into the potion, which was bubbling brighter, now. Only two more bellflowers remained on the Potions table. ‘And I do hope your lesson is a sensible one, for your sake.’</p>

    <p>‘Suppose, Professor, that I learned how to cast the improved horcrux spell and I was willing to use it. What would I do with it?’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell answered at once. ‘You would find some person whom you found morally abhorrent and whose death you could convince yourself would save other lives, and murder them to create a horcrux.’</p>

    <p>‘And then what?’</p>

    <p>‘Make more horcruxes,’ said the Defence Professor. He picked up a jar of what looked like dragon scales.</p>

    <p>‘Before that,’ Harry said.</p>

    <p>After a time the Defence Professor shook his head. ‘I still do not see it, and you will cease this game and tell me.’</p>

    <p>‘I would make horcruxes for my friends. If you’d ever really cared about one single other person in the entire world, if there’d been just one person who gave your immortality <em>meaning,</em> someone that you wanted to live forever <em>with</em> you&#160;–’ Harry’s throat choked. ‘Then, then the idea of making a horcrux for someone else wouldn’t have been such a counterintuitive thought.’ Harry was blinking hard. ‘You have a blind spot around strategies that involve doing nice things for other people, to the point where it stops you from achieving your selfish values. You think … it’s not your style, I suppose. That … particular part of your self-image … is what cost you those nine years.’</p>

    <p>The dropper of mint oil that the Defence Professor was holding added liquid to the cauldron, drip by drip.</p>

    <p>‘I see …’ the Defence Professor said slowly. ‘I see. I should have taught Rabastan the advanced horcrux ritual, and forced him to test the invention. Yes, that is supremely obvious in retrospect. For that matter, I could have ordered Rabastan to try marking himself onto some disposable infant, to see what happened, before I took myself to Godric’s Hollow to create you.’ Professor Quirrell shook his head bemusedly. ‘Well. I am glad I am realizing this now and not ten years earlier; I had enough to chide myself for at that time.’</p>

    <p>‘You don’t see nice ways to do <i>the things you want to do,</i>’ Harry said. His ears heard a note of desperation in his own voice. ‘Even when a nice strategy would be <i>more effective</i> you don’t see it because you have a self-image of <i>not being nice.</i>’</p>

    <p>‘That is a fair observation,’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘Indeed, now that you have pointed it out, I have just now thought of some nice things I can do this very day, to further my agenda.’</p>

    <p>Harry just looked at him.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell was smiling. ‘Your lesson is a good one, Mr&#160;Potter. From now on, until I learn the trick of it, I shall keep diligent watch for cunning strategies that involve doing kindnesses for other people. Go and practise acts of goodwill, perhaps, until my mind goes there easily.’</p>

    <p>Cold chills ran down Harry’s spine.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell had said this without the slightest visible hesitation.</p>

    <p>Lord Voldemort was absolutely certain that he could never be redeemed. He wasn’t the tiniest bit afraid of it happening to him.</p>

    <p>The second-to-last bellflower was dropped into the potion, gently.</p>

    <p>‘Any other valuable lessons you would like to teach to Lord Voldemort, boy?’ said Professor Quirrell. He was looking up from the potion, and grinning as though he knew exactly what Harry was thinking.</p>

    <p>‘Yes,’ Harry said, his voice almost breaking. ‘If your goal is to obtain happiness, then doing nice things for other people feels better than doing them for yourself&#160;–’</p>

    <p>‘Do you <em>really</em> think I never thought of that, boy?’ The smile had vanished. ‘Do you think I am stupid? After graduating Hogwarts I wandered the world for years, before I returned to Britain as Lord Voldemort. I have put on more faces than I bothered counting. Do you think I never tried to play the hero, just to see how it would feel? Have you come across the name of Alexander Chernyshov? Under that guise, I sought out a forlorn hellhole ruled over by a Dark Wizard, and I freed the wretched inhabitants from their bondage. They wept tears of gratitude for me. It did not feel like anything in particular. I even stayed about and killed the next five Dark Wizards to try taking command of the place. I spent my own Galleons – well, not my own Galleons, but the same principle applies – to prettify their little country and introduce a semblance of order. They grovelled all the more, and named one in three of their infants Alexander. I still felt nothing, so I nodded to myself, wrote it off as a fair try, and went upon my way.’</p>

    <p>‘And were you happy as Lord Voldemort, then?’ Harry’s voice had risen, grown wild.</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell hesitated, then shrugged. ‘It appears you already know the answer to that.’</p>

    <p>‘Then <i>why?</i> Why be Voldemort if it <i>doesn’t even make you happy?</i>’ Harry’s voice broke. ‘I’m <em>you</em>, I’m based on you, so <i>I know</i> that Professor Quirrell isn’t just a mask! I <em>know</em> he’s somebody you really could have been! Why not just stay that way? Take your curse off the Defence Position and just <i>stay here</i>, use the Philosopher’s Stone to take David Monroe’s shape and let the real Quirinus Quirrell go free, if you say you’ll stop killing people I’ll swear not to tell anyone who you really are, just <i>be Professor Quirrell,</i> for always! Your students <em>would</em> appreciate you, my father’s students appreciate <em>him</em>&#160;–’</p>

    <p>Professor Quirrell was chuckling over the cauldron as he stirred it. ‘There are perhaps fifteen thousand wizards living in magical Britain, child. There used to be more. There’s a reason they’re afraid to speak my name. You’d forgive me that because you liked my Battle Magic lessons?’</p>

    <p><i>Seconded,</i> said Harry’s inner Hufflepuff. <i>Seriously, what the hell?</i></p>

    <p>Harry kept his head raised, though it was trembling. ‘It’s not my place to forgive anything you’ve done. But it’s better than another war.’</p>

    <p>‘Ha,’ said the Defence Professor. ‘If you ever find a Time-Turner that goes back forty years and can alter history, be sure to tell Dumbledore that before he rejects Tom Riddle’s application for the Defence position. But alas, I fear that Professor Riddle would not have found lasting happiness in Hogwarts.’</p>

    <p><i>‘Why not?’</i></p>

    <p>‘Because I still would’ve been surrounded by idiots, and I wouldn’t have been able to kill them,’ Professor Quirrell said mildly. ‘Killing idiots is my great joy in life, and I’ll thank you not to speak ill of it until you’ve tried it for yourself.’</p>

    <p>‘There’s <em>something</em> that would make you happier than that,’ Harry said, his voice breaking again. ‘There has to be.’</p>

    <p>‘Why?’ said Professor Quirrell. ‘Is this some scientific law I have not yet encountered? Tell me of it.’</p>

    <p>Harry opened his mouth, but couldn’t find any words, there had to be something <i>had to be something</i> if he could just find the right thing to say –</p>

    <p>‘And <em>you</em>,’ said Professor Quirrell, ‘have no right to speak of happiness either. Happiness is not what you hold precious above all. You decided that in the beginning, all the way back in the beginning of this year, when the Sorting Hat offered you Hufflepuff. Which I know about, because I received a similar offer and warning all those years ago, and I refused it just as you did. Beyond this there is little more to say, between Tom Riddles.’ The Defence Professor turned back to the cauldron.</p>

    <p>Before Harry could think of any way to reply, Professor Quirrell dropped in the last bellflower, and a burst of glowing bubbles boiled up from the cauldron.</p>

    <p>‘I believe we are done here,’ Professor Quirrell said. ‘If you have further questions, they must wait.’</p>

    <p>Harry shakily rose to his feet; even as Professor Quirrell took up the cauldron and poured out a ridiculously huge volume of effulgent liquid, more than seemed like it could fit in a dozen cauldrons, onto the purple fire that guarded the doorway.</p>

    <p>The purple fire winked out.</p>

    <p>‘Now for the Mirror,’ said Professor Quirrell, and he drew forth the Cloak of Invisibility from his robes, and floated it to drop before Harry’s shoes.</p>
  </div>
</body>
</html>