<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
        <title>Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality</title>
        <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
        <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
        <link href="../Styles/page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1 class="sigil_not_in_toc">Trigger warnings</h1>
        <p>By reader request, a list of trigger warnings - parts of the story with potentially traumatic associations for some readers.</p>
        <p>Readers wishing to fully brace themselves mentally may click the appropriate links for complete, spoilerized warnings (i.e., deliberately dilute and avert the whole emotional impact).</p>
        <ul>
            <li>Discussion (<em>not</em> depiction) of <a epub:type="noteref" href="#n1">nonconsensual sex</a>.</li>
            <li>First-person depiction (experienced by viewpoint character) of strong <a epub:type="noteref" href="#n2">bullying</a>.</li>
            <li>Psychologically disturbing psychological instability (usually experienced by viewpoint character). Said emotional distress can be highly disturbing for those who have experienced mental illness and/or emotional abuse/neglect, or otherwise doubt (or have previously doubted) their own mental/emotional sanity or stability.... Does not occur in any one specific area, but increases in intensity at least up to Book 3.</li>
            <li><a epub:type="noteref" href="#n3">Violent character death</a> (very large spoiler).</li>
        </ul>
        <aside style="display:none" epub:type="footnote" id="n1">
            <p>During book 1 ch. 10, it is revealed that Luna Lovegood has been writing awful headlines about Draco Malfoy, toward whom Harry is currently acting in a friendly manner. Draco - rather to Harry's surprise - announces his intent to rape Luna as soon as he's old enough. Harry inquires further and finds that Draco is certain that the Lovegood family would be incapable of getting a conviction of Draco in the Wizengamot and, knowing this, would not bother prosecuting. Harry quietly resolves to overthrow the wizarding government. Draco seems to think that rape is a fun thing that young Slytherins get to do and invites Harry to join in when they're old enough, reasoning that no one would possibly believe Luna about it. Harry, thinking quickly, asks Draco to hold off on targeting Lovegood because Harry thinks he might marry her someday. Draco agrees.</p>
        </aside>
        <aside style="display:none" epub:type="footnote" id="n2">
            <p>In book 2 ch. 15, Professor Quirrell says that Harry has been escalating his battles because he is emotionally incapable of accepting the possibility of losing, and that in order to learn how to lose, Harry will be bullied by older Slytherins, without defending himself. Harry agrees because Professor Quirrell says that otherwise he is afraid Harry will hurt someone. Harry is pushed around, pushed to the ground, sat upon, and must repeatedly say that he loses and that the bullies are better than him. After fifteen minutes, while being pushed around in a circle from bully to bully while trying not to fall over, Professor Quirrell ends the lesson and Harry collapses. Afterward Professor Quirrell says that Harry learned the lesson successfully.</p>
        </aside>
        <aside style="display:none" epub:type="footnote" id="n3">
            <p>In book 8 ch. 14, the troll gets Hermione. Her legs are eaten off. She dies as Harry watches.</p>
        </aside>
</body>
</html>